sysinternals/index.md, before:

---
TOCTitle: 'Sysinternals: Documentation, downloads and additional resources'
title:  Sysinternals
description: Library, learning resources, downloads, support, and community. Evaluate and find out how to install, deploy, and maintain Windows with Sysinternals utilities.
no-loc: [Mark Russinovich]
ms:assetid: '2b0d74e3-5962-455a-b35a-248979737b61'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb545021(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 11/28/2022
---

# ![Sysinternals icon](media/index/Sysinternals.png)<br>Sysinternals
The Sysinternals web site was created in 1996 by [Mark Russinovich](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/markrussinovich/) to host his advanced system utilities and technical information. Whether you’re an IT Pro or a developer, you’ll find Sysinternals utilities to help you manage, troubleshoot and diagnose your Windows systems and applications.  
  -   Read the official guide to the Sysinternals tools, [Troubleshooting with the Windows Sysinternals Tools](~/resources/troubleshooting-book.md)
-   Read the [Sysinternals Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Sysinternals-Blog/bg-p/Sysinternals-Blog) for a detailed change feed of tool updates
-   Watch Mark's [Sysinternals Update videos on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhFhDWFYccZ_GvdJ11NZwaBAhwDCWmni_)
-   Watch Mark’s top-rated [Case-of-the-Unexplained](~/resources/webcasts.md) troubleshooting presentations and other webcasts
-   Read [Mark’s Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-Blog-Archive/bg-p/Windows-Blog-Archive/label-name/Mark%20Russinovich) which highlight use of the tools to solve real problems
-   Check out the Sysinternals [Learning Resources](~/resources/index.md) page
-   Post your questions in the [Sysinternals Forum](https://aka.ms/sysint-forums)

---
## Sysinternals Live

Sysinternals Live is a service that enables you to execute Sysinternals tools directly from the Web without hunting for and manually downloading them. Simply enter a tool's Sysinternals Live path into Windows Explorer or a command prompt as live.sysinternals.com/&lt;toolname&gt; or  \\\\live.sysinternals.com\tools\\&lt;toolname&gt;.

You can view the entire Sysinternals Live tools directory in a browser at [https://live.sysinternals.com/](https://live.sysinternals.com).

## What's New [![RSS icon](media/index/rss.gif)](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/plugins/custom/microsoft/o365/custom-blog-rss?board=Sysinternals-Blog)

### What's New (December 12, 2022)

- [ProcDump 1.4 for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/ProcDump-for-Linux)  
This update to ProcDump for Linux adds the capability to generate dumps when specified exceptions occur in a .NET process.

### What's New (November 3, 2022)

- [ProcDump v11.0](~/downloads/procdump.md)  
This update to ProcDump, a command-line utility for generating memory dumps from running processes, adds ModuleLoad/Unload and Thread Create/Exit triggers, removes Internet Explorer JavaScript support, and improves descriptive text messages.

- [ProcDump 1.3 for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/ProcDump-for-Linux)  
This update to ProcDump for Linux changes the CLI interface to match ProcDump for Windows, and adds a new process group trigger (`-pgid`) to allow monitoring all processes running in the same process group.

### What's New (October 26, 2022)

- [Process Explorer v17.0](~/downloads/process-explorer.md)  
This update to Process Explorer, an advanced process, DLL and handle viewing utility, adds dark theme support, multipane view in the main window with a new threads pane, startup performance optimization and more.

- [Handle v5.0](~/downloads/handle.md)  
This update to Handle, a tool that displays information about open handles for any process in the system, adds CSV output with a new `-v` switch and has an option to print the granted access mask with `-g`.

### What's New (October 12, 2022)

- [ZoomIt v6.1](~/downloads/zoomit.md)  
This update to ZoomIt, a screen magnification and annotation tool, adds right-justified text input, an option to scale the screen recordings resolution, and usability fixes.

### What's New (September 29, 2022)

- [Sysmon v14.1](~/downloads/sysmon.md)  
This update to Sysmon, an advanced host monitoring tool, adds a new event type, FileBlockShredding that prevents wiping tools such as Sysinternals SDelete from corrupting and deleting files.

- [Coreinfo v3.6](~/downloads/coreinfo.md)  
This update to Coreinfo, a utility that reports system CPU, memory and cache topology and information, now has an option (-d) for measuring inter-CPU latencies in nanoseconds.

### What's New (August 16, 2022)

- [Sysmon v14.0](~/downloads/sysmon.md)  
This major update to Sysmon, an advanced host monitoring tool, adds a new event type, FileBlockExecutable that prevents processes from creating executable files in specified locations. It also includes several performance improvements and bug fixes.

### What's New (July 19, 2022)

- [ZoomIt v6.0](~/downloads/zoomit.md)  
This major update to ZoomIt, a screen magnification and annotation tool, adds built-in screen recording for easy demo recordings and now supports Unicode typing input.

Commit message:

Add content for March 2023 publish (#671)

sysinternals/index.md, after:

---
TOCTitle: 'Sysinternals: Documentation, downloads and additional resources'
title:  Sysinternals
description: Library, learning resources, downloads, support, and community. Evaluate and find out how to install, deploy, and maintain Windows with Sysinternals utilities.
no-loc: [Mark Russinovich]
ms:assetid: '2b0d74e3-5962-455a-b35a-248979737b61'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb545021(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 03/09/2023
---

# ![Sysinternals icon](media/index/Sysinternals.png)<br>Sysinternals
The Sysinternals web site was created in 1996 by [Mark Russinovich](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/markrussinovich/) to host his advanced system utilities and technical information. Whether you’re an IT Pro or a developer, you’ll find Sysinternals utilities to help you manage, troubleshoot and diagnose your Windows and Linux systems and applications.  
  -   Read the official guide to the Sysinternals tools, [Troubleshooting with the Windows Sysinternals Tools](~/resources/troubleshooting-book.md)
-   Read the [Sysinternals Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Sysinternals-Blog/bg-p/Sysinternals-Blog) for a detailed change feed of tool updates
-   Watch Mark's [Sysinternals Update videos on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhFhDWFYccZ_GvdJ11NZwaBAhwDCWmni_)
-   Watch Mark’s top-rated [Case-of-the-Unexplained](~/resources/webcasts.md) troubleshooting presentations and other webcasts
-   Read [Mark’s Blog](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/Windows-Blog-Archive/bg-p/Windows-Blog-Archive/label-name/Mark%20Russinovich) which highlight use of the tools to solve real problems
-   Check out the Sysinternals [Learning Resources](~/resources/index.md) page
-   Post your questions in the [Sysinternals Forum](https://aka.ms/sysint-forums)

---
## Sysinternals Live

Sysinternals Live is a service that enables you to execute Sysinternals tools directly from the Web without hunting for and manually downloading them. Simply enter a tool's Sysinternals Live path into Windows Explorer or a command prompt as live.sysinternals.com/&lt;toolname&gt; or  \\\\live.sysinternals.com\tools\\&lt;toolname&gt;.

You can view the entire Sysinternals Live tools directory in a browser at [https://live.sysinternals.com/](https://live.sysinternals.com).

## What's New [![RSS icon](media/index/rss.gif)](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/plugins/custom/microsoft/o365/custom-blog-rss?board=Sysinternals-Blog)

### What's New (March 9, 2023)

- [Sysmon 1.1 for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/SysmonForLinux)  
This update to Sysmon for Linux, an advanced host monitoring tool, adds support for a wider range of distributions (e.g., RHEL) by leveraging BTF enabled kernels.

### What's New (December 12, 2022)

- [ProcDump 1.4 for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/ProcDump-for-Linux)  
This update to ProcDump for Linux adds the capability to generate dumps when specified exceptions occur in a .NET process.

### What's New (November 3, 2022)

- [ProcDump v11.0](~/downloads/procdump.md)  
This update to ProcDump, a command-line utility for generating memory dumps from running processes, adds ModuleLoad/Unload and Thread Create/Exit triggers, removes Internet Explorer JavaScript support, and improves descriptive text messages.

- [ProcDump 1.3 for Linux](https://github.com/Sysinternals/ProcDump-for-Linux)  
This update to ProcDump for Linux changes the CLI interface to match ProcDump for Windows, and adds a new process group trigger (`-pgid`) to allow monitoring all processes running in the same process group.

### What's New (October 26, 2022)

- [Process Explorer v17.0](~/downloads/process-explorer.md)  
This update to Process Explorer, an advanced process, DLL and handle viewing utility, adds dark theme support, multipane view in the main window with a new threads pane, startup performance optimization and more.

- [Handle v5.0](~/downloads/handle.md)  
This update to Handle, a tool that displays information about open handles for any process in the system, adds CSV output with a new `-v` switch and has an option to print the granted access mask with `-g`.

### What's New (October 12, 2022)

- [ZoomIt v6.1](~/downloads/zoomit.md)  
This update to ZoomIt, a screen magnification and annotation tool, adds right-justified text input, an option to scale the screen recordings resolution, and usability fixes.

### What's New (September 29, 2022)

- [Sysmon v14.1](~/downloads/sysmon.md)  
This update to Sysmon, an advanced host monitoring tool, adds a new event type, FileBlockShredding that prevents wiping tools such as Sysinternals SDelete from corrupting and deleting files.

- [Coreinfo v3.6](~/downloads/coreinfo.md)  
This update to Coreinfo, a utility that reports system CPU, memory and cache topology and information, now has an option (-d) for measuring inter-CPU latencies in nanoseconds.
