sysinternals/resources/webcasts.md, before:

---
TOCTitle: 'Mark''s Webcasts'
title: Mark's Webcasts
description: Mark's webcasts
ms:assetid: '3b496bb4-d2ce-477f-8c9e-c3736ac61bfe'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb963887(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 09/09/2020
---

# Mark's Webcasts

Watch free on-demand recordings of Mark’s top-rated presentations from
TechEd, BUILD and other conferences on Azure, security, Windows
troubleshooting, malware hunting. If you have a question about a topic
in any of these webcasts, please visit the [Sysinternals
Forum](https://forum.sysinternals.com/) for answers and help from other
users and our moderators.

## Case of the Unexplained

- [The Case of the Unexplained 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WbIYw0tKqm8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iVCU2BDcfo8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RmORNa7rXm8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wO6oUqZpM_A)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CrG_spCpplU)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PYHqrwQIoxc)
- Mark’s  “The Case of…” [blog posts](https://technet.microsoft.com/sysinternals/bb963890.aspx) come alive in  these recorded webcasts of his #1-rated TechEd sessions. Learn how to troubleshoot the toughest Windows and application problems by watching Mark use Sysinternals and other advanced tools to solve real-world examples. Be sure to check out all webcasts since they include totally different troubleshooting examples and demonstrate different techniques.

## Microsoft Azure

- [The Next Generation of  Azure Compute Platform](https://channel9.msdn.com/events/build/2015/3-618)
Learn about ways to  integrate with Azure Resource Manager (ARM) to  enable  role-based  access  control (RBAC), tagging,and template-based  deployments,and how Windows containers  with Docker  compatibility make your code deploy  instantly and work consistently in  any environment. Also learn how Service Fabric, Microsoft’s hyper-scale micro-service PaaS that powers  everything  from Azure DB  to  Cortana, brings  applications state-of-the art high-density, high availability and stateful computing capabilities.
- [Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi  on  Cloud Computing](/events/ignite-2015/brk2477)
Join Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi  for a lively  discussion  as  they share their views on  the cloud computing disruption  and what it  means for IT  pros and developers. Mark Russinovich brings  his perspective from leading Microsoft Azure architecture and Mark Minasi  brings  his IT  expertise and view from outside.
- [Public Cloud Security: Surviving in a Hostile Multi-Tenant Environment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lk4eCARD1RU)
 The rise of  public  cloud computing has brought with it a new set of  security considerations  that are not widely  understood. With a unique  perspective from working on  the security systems of a public  cloud,  Mark describes public  cloud service provider and cloud customer threats, including malicious insiders, shared  technology, data breaches, and data loss. For each, he  assesses the risks and explores the value of  mitigations like encryption-at-rest, encryption-in-flight, and other security best practices,  separating  hype from reality so  that you can make educated decisions as  your organization moves to  the cloud.
- [Microsoft  Azure Internals](/events/teched-2012/azr302)
  Mark Russinovich goes under the hood of  the Microsoft datacenter  operating system. Intended for developers  who have already gotten their hands dirty with Windows Azure and understand  its basic concepts, this session gives an  inside  look at  the architectural design  of  the Windows Azure compute platform. Learn about Microsoft’s datacenter  architecture, what goes on  behind  the scenes  when you deploy  and update  a Windows Azure app and how it  monitors and responds to  the health  of  machines, its own components, and the apps it  hosts.
- [Introduction to  Microsoft Azure:  The Cloud Operating System](/events/build-build2011/sac-852f)
  Join Mark Russinovich for an  overview of  Microsoft’s new cloud OS. Assuming no  prior knowledge of  Windows Azure,  this session will start by  explaining  the Windows Azure Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)  app philosophy  and how it  differs from that of  traditional server  apps. Then, demonstrating key concepts with a real Windows Azure service built and deployed to  the cloud,  we’ll describe the Windows Azure service model,  including concepts like update  and fault domains. The session will then conclude by  discussing  the different service update  options and detail  the recovery steps Windows Azure follows when it  detects that a service or a hardware device  has failed.
- [Inside Microsoft Azure:  The Cloud Operating System](/events/build-build2011/sac-853t)
  Mark Russinovich goes under the hood of  Microsoft’s new cloud OS. Intended for developers  who have already gotten  their hands dirty with Windows Azure and understand  its basic concepts, this session gives an  inside  look at  the architectural design  of  Windows Azure’s compute platform. You’ll  learn about Microsoft’s datacenter  architecture, what goes on  behind  the scenes  when you deploy  and update  a Windows Azure app and how it  monitors and responds to  the health  of  machines, its own components  and the apps it  hosts.
- [Channel9:  MarkRussinovich: Microsoft Azure,  Cloud Operating Systems and Platformas a Service](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-windows-azure-cloud-operating-systems-and-platform-as-a-service)
 Mark talks about what he’s working on  in  the Windows Azure team, why the world is  moving  to  the cloud,  and what Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)  means and how Windows Azure delivers PaaS.

## Windows Internals

- [Channel9:  Mark Russinovich goes Inside  Windows 7](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-inside-windows-7/)
 Mark talks about kernel  changes in  Windows 7 and Windows Server  2008R2, including the removal of  the scheduler's dispatcher  lock, support for up  to  256 CPUs, boot from VHD, MinWin, core parking for power savings and more.
- [Channel9:  Mark Russinovich: Inside  Windows 7 Redux](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-inside-windows-7-redux)
  In a follow-on to  the previous Inside  Windows 7 discussion, Mark digs into the insides of  Windows 7,  way deep down in  the system  (the cumulative effects of  which help to  make Windows 7 Microsoft's most reliable, scalable and efficient general purpose operating system  to  date).
- [Channel9:  Mark talks about working at  Microsoft,  Windows Server  2008's  kernel, MinWin  vs  ServerCore  and Hyper-V](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-on-working-at-microsoft-windows-server-2008-kernel-minwin-vs-servercore-hyperv/)
 Channel 9 chats with Technical Fellow  and Sysinternals founder Mark Russinovich to  dig a bit into what's  new in  the Windows Server  2008 kernel. Of  course, we  talk about many things  including HyperV, application virtualization, kernel  architecture, and more....

## Security

- [TWC: Pass-the-Hash:  How Attackers Spread  and How to  Stop Them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXRfD0sx-LA)
  Pass-the-hash transforms  the breach  of  one machine into total compromise  of  infrastructure. The publication of  attacks, and lack of  tools to  respond, have forced  enterprises to  rely on  onerous and ineffective techniques. In  this session, we  deconstruct the PtH threat, show how the attack  is  performed,  and how it  can be  addressed using new features and functionality recently introduced  in  Windows.
- [TWC: Malware Hunting with Mark Russinovich and the Sysinternals Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vW8eAqZyWeo)
 Mark provides an  overview of  several Sysinternals tools,  including Process Monitor, Process Explorer, and Autoruns, focusing on  the features useful  for malware analysis and removal. These utilities enable  deep inspection  and control of  processes,  file system  and registry activity, and autostart execution points. He  demonstrates their malware-hunting capabilities by  presenting  several current, real-world  malware samples and using the tools to  identify and clean malware.
- [License to  Kill: Malware Hunting with the Sysinternals tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A_TPZxuTzBU)
  This session provides an  overview of  several Sysinternals tools,  including Process Monitor, Process Explorer, and Autoruns, focusing on  the features useful  for malware analysis and removal. These utilities enable  deep inspection  and control of  processes,  file system  and registry activity, and autostart execution points. You will see demos for their malware-hunting capabilities through several real-world  cases that used the tools to  identify and clean malware,and conclude by  performing  a live analysis of a Stuxnet infection’s system  impact.
- [Zero Day: A Non-Fiction View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SX7Lxvb5ZD8)
  Mark makes the case for how his hit cyberthriller,  ZeroDay, is  likely  to  be  realized in non-fiction form in  this 20-minute short version of  his well-popular RSA Conference  session.
- [Zero Day Malware Cleaning with the Sysinternals tools](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsMalwareCleaning.pdf)
 Slides  from Mark’s  highly-rated Blackhat US  2011 presentation  how to  use the Sysinternals tools to  hunt down and eliminate malware.
- [Channel9:  Mark Talks about Windows Security and Core Architecture](https://channel9.msdn.com/showpost.aspx?postid=294410)
Check out Mark’s  Channel 9 interview where he  talks about how he  got started with Windows internals,  new security features in  Windows Vista,  User Account Control,and what he’s doing at  Microsoft.

## Defrag Tools

- [Defrag Tools Shows](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/defrag-tools)
  Episodes 1 – 12 of the *Defrag Tools* shows focus on Sysinternals tools. Each episode covers a specific tool used on the tech support show [Defrag](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/the-defrag-show), covering when
  and why to use the tools, and providing tips on how to get the most out of them:
  - [Defrag Tools: #1- Building your USB thumbdrive](/shows/defrag-tools/building-your-usb-thumbdrive)
  - [Defrag Tools: #2- Process Explorer](/shows/defrag-tools/2-process-explorer)
  - [Defrag Tools: #3- Process Monitor](/shows/defrag-tools/3-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #4- Process Monitor- Examples](/shows/defrag-tools/4-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #5- Autoruns and MSConfig](/shows/defrag-tools/5-autoruns)
  - [Defrag Tools: #6- RAMMap](/shows/defrag-tools/6-rammap)
  - [Defrag Tools: #7- VMMap](/shows/defrag-tools/7-vmmap)
  - [Defrag Tools: #8- Mark Russinovich](/shows/defrag-tools/live-teched-2014-mark-russinovich)
  - [Defrag Tools: #9- ProcDump](/shows/defrag-tools/9-procdump)
  - [Defrag Tools: #10- ProcDump- Triggers](/shows/defrag-tools/10-procdump-triggers)
  - [Defrag Tools: #11- ProcDump- Windows 8 & Process Monitor](/shows/defrag-tools/11-procdump-windows-8-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #12- TaskMgr and ResMon](/shows/defrag-tools/12-taskmgr-resmon)

Commit message:

Keep mentions of events with lost links

sysinternals/resources/webcasts.md, after:

---
TOCTitle: 'Mark''s Webcasts'
title: Mark's Webcasts
description: Mark's webcasts
ms:assetid: '3b496bb4-d2ce-477f-8c9e-c3736ac61bfe'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb963887(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 09/09/2020
---

# Mark's Webcasts

Watch free on-demand recordings of Mark’s top-rated presentations from
TechEd, BUILD and other conferences on Azure, security, Windows
troubleshooting, malware hunting. If you have a question about a topic
in any of these webcasts, please visit the [Sysinternals
Forum](https://forum.sysinternals.com/) for answers and help from other
users and our moderators.

## Case of the Unexplained

- [The Case of the Unexplained 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WbIYw0tKqm8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iVCU2BDcfo8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RmORNa7rXm8)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2012](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wO6oUqZpM_A)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2011](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CrG_spCpplU)
- [The Case of the Unexplained 2010](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PYHqrwQIoxc)
- Mark’s  “The Case of…” [blog posts](https://technet.microsoft.com/sysinternals/bb963890.aspx) come alive in  these recorded webcasts of his #1-rated TechEd sessions. Learn how to troubleshoot the toughest Windows and application problems by watching Mark use Sysinternals and other advanced tools to solve real-world examples. Be sure to check out all webcasts since they include totally different troubleshooting examples and demonstrate different techniques.

## Microsoft Azure

- [The Next Generation of  Azure Compute Platform](https://channel9.msdn.com/events/build/2015/3-618)
Learn about ways to  integrate with Azure Resource Manager (ARM) to  enable  role-based  access  control (RBAC), tagging,and template-based  deployments,and how Windows containers  with Docker  compatibility make your code deploy  instantly and work consistently in  any environment. Also learn how Service Fabric, Microsoft’s hyper-scale micro-service PaaS that powers  everything  from Azure DB  to  Cortana, brings  applications state-of-the art high-density, high availability and stateful computing capabilities.
- [Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi  on  Cloud Computing](/events/ignite-2015/brk2477)
Join Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi  for a lively  discussion  as  they share their views on  the cloud computing disruption  and what it  means for IT  pros and developers. Mark Russinovich brings  his perspective from leading Microsoft Azure architecture and Mark Minasi  brings  his IT  expertise and view from outside.
- [Public Cloud Security: Surviving in a Hostile Multi-Tenant Environment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lk4eCARD1RU)
 The rise of  public  cloud computing has brought with it a new set of  security considerations  that are not widely  understood. With a unique  perspective from working on  the security systems of a public  cloud,  Mark describes public  cloud service provider and cloud customer threats, including malicious insiders, shared  technology, data breaches, and data loss. For each, he  assesses the risks and explores the value of  mitigations like encryption-at-rest, encryption-in-flight, and other security best practices,  separating  hype from reality so  that you can make educated decisions as  your organization moves to  the cloud.
- Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi on Cloud Computing (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/northamerica/2014/dcim-b386)
 Join Mark Russinovich and Mark Minasi  for a lively  discussion  as  they share their views on  the cloud computing disruption  and what it  means for IT  pros and developers. Mark Russinovich brings  his perspective from leading Microsoft Azure architecture and Mark Minasi  brings  his IT  expertise and view from outside. The economics of  public  cloud,  future  of  PaaS and IaaS, how enterprises will bridge  their on-premises environments with the cloud,  how you should  look at  security in  the public  cloud,  and what skills  are important for IT  pros and developers  are just some of  the areas they explore together.
- Infrastructure Services on  Microsoft Azure: Virtual Machines and Virtual Networks (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/northamerica/2013/mdc-b212)
 This session gives an  overview of  the new Windows Azure infrastructure  services (IaaS), including support for Windows Server  and Linux persistent  virtual machines, new networking  capabilities for hybrid  applications and on-premises/cloud connectivity, and support for applications that consist of  PaaS and IaaS roles.  Mark explains how IaaS fits into Windows Azure to  extend  existing server  applications to  cloud and shows demonstrations  of  IaaS VM  deployment  and complex multi-VM applications.
- [Microsoft  Azure Internals](/events/teched-2012/azr302)
  Mark Russinovich goes under the hood of  the Microsoft datacenter  operating system. Intended for developers  who have already gotten their hands dirty with Windows Azure and understand  its basic concepts, this session gives an  inside  look at  the architectural design  of  the Windows Azure compute platform. Learn about Microsoft’s datacenter  architecture, what goes on  behind  the scenes  when you deploy  and update  a Windows Azure app and how it  monitors and responds to  the health  of  machines, its own components, and the apps it  hosts.
- [Introduction to  Microsoft Azure:  The Cloud Operating System](/events/build-build2011/sac-852f)
  Join Mark Russinovich for an  overview of  Microsoft’s new cloud OS. Assuming no  prior knowledge of  Windows Azure,  this session will start by  explaining  the Windows Azure Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)  app philosophy  and how it  differs from that of  traditional server  apps. Then, demonstrating key concepts with a real Windows Azure service built and deployed to  the cloud,  we’ll describe the Windows Azure service model,  including concepts like update  and fault domains. The session will then conclude by  discussing  the different service update  options and detail  the recovery steps Windows Azure follows when it  detects that a service or a hardware device  has failed.
- [Inside Microsoft Azure:  The Cloud Operating System](/events/build-build2011/sac-853t)
  Mark Russinovich goes under the hood of  Microsoft’s new cloud OS. Intended for developers  who have already gotten  their hands dirty with Windows Azure and understand  its basic concepts, this session gives an  inside  look at  the architectural design  of  Windows Azure’s compute platform. You’ll  learn about Microsoft’s datacenter  architecture, what goes on  behind  the scenes  when you deploy  and update  a Windows Azure app and how it  monitors and responds to  the health  of  machines, its own components  and the apps it  hosts.
- [Channel9:  MarkRussinovich: Microsoft Azure,  Cloud Operating Systems and Platformas a Service](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-windows-azure-cloud-operating-systems-and-platform-as-a-service)
 Mark talks about what he’s working on  in  the Windows Azure team, why the world is  moving  to  the cloud,  and what Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)  means and how Windows Azure delivers PaaS.

## Windows Internals

 - Tech-Ed North America 2011: Mysteries of Windows Memory Management Revealed, Part1 (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/northamerica/2011/wcl405)
 [Tech-Ed North America 2011: Mysteries of  Windows Memory  Management  Revealed, Part2 (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/northamerica/2011/wcl406)
If  you want to  know the difference  between System  Committed memory  and Process Committed memory, wondered what all those memory  numbers shown by  Task Manager really  mean, or  want to  gain insight into the memory-related  impact  of a process, then this talk is  for you. Watch Mark in  this on-demand webcast from North America 2011.
- Pushing the Limits of Windows (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/europe/2009/cli402)
 Watch as  Mark explains Windows limits  related to  object  handles, virtual memory  and physical memory. Along the way he  explains where the limits  come from and how to  monitor your applications so  that you're  warned  when they approach the limits  and so  that you can size your systems to  accommodate their resource requirements.
- Inside Windows Server 2008R2 Virtualization and VHD Improvements (https<nolink>://channel9.msdn.com/events/teched/northamerica/2009/vir401)
Mark takes you inside  new Windows virtualization  and VHD features, including live VM  migration,  core parking and timer coalescing, hypervisor  power management  support,and new hardware-assisted guest memory  management. He  delivers the entire  presentation from a Windows installation that was booted  from VHD to  show you how Windows implements  a native  VHD stack and how the boot architecture has changed to  accommodate booting from VHD images.
- [Channel9:  Mark Russinovich goes Inside  Windows 7](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-inside-windows-7/)
 Mark talks about kernel  changes in  Windows 7 and Windows Server  2008R2, including the removal of  the scheduler's dispatcher  lock, support for up  to  256 CPUs, boot from VHD, MinWin, core parking for power savings and more.
- [Channel9:  Mark Russinovich: Inside  Windows 7 Redux](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-inside-windows-7-redux)
  In a follow-on to  the previous Inside  Windows 7 discussion, Mark digs into the insides of  Windows 7,  way deep down in  the system  (the cumulative effects of  which help to  make Windows 7 Microsoft's most reliable, scalable and efficient general purpose operating system  to  date).
- [Channel9:  Mark talks about working at  Microsoft,  Windows Server  2008's  kernel, MinWin  vs  ServerCore  and Hyper-V](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/going+deep/mark-russinovich-on-working-at-microsoft-windows-server-2008-kernel-minwin-vs-servercore-hyperv/)
 Channel 9 chats with Technical Fellow  and Sysinternals founder Mark Russinovich to  dig a bit into what's  new in  the Windows Server  2008 kernel. Of  course, we  talk about many things  including HyperV, application virtualization, kernel  architecture, and more....

## Security

- [TWC: Pass-the-Hash:  How Attackers Spread  and How to  Stop Them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXRfD0sx-LA)
  Pass-the-hash transforms  the breach  of  one machine into total compromise  of  infrastructure. The publication of  attacks, and lack of  tools to  respond, have forced  enterprises to  rely on  onerous and ineffective techniques. In  this session, we  deconstruct the PtH threat, show how the attack  is  performed,  and how it  can be  addressed using new features and functionality recently introduced  in  Windows.
- [TWC: Malware Hunting with Mark Russinovich and the Sysinternals Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vW8eAqZyWeo)
 Mark provides an  overview of  several Sysinternals tools,  including Process Monitor, Process Explorer, and Autoruns, focusing on  the features useful  for malware analysis and removal. These utilities enable  deep inspection  and control of  processes,  file system  and registry activity, and autostart execution points. He  demonstrates their malware-hunting capabilities by  presenting  several current, real-world  malware samples and using the tools to  identify and clean malware.
- [License to  Kill: Malware Hunting with the Sysinternals tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A_TPZxuTzBU)
  This session provides an  overview of  several Sysinternals tools,  including Process Monitor, Process Explorer, and Autoruns, focusing on  the features useful  for malware analysis and removal. These utilities enable  deep inspection  and control of  processes,  file system  and registry activity, and autostart execution points. You will see demos for their malware-hunting capabilities through several real-world  cases that used the tools to  identify and clean malware,and conclude by  performing  a live analysis of a Stuxnet infection’s system  impact.
- [Zero Day: A Non-Fiction View](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SX7Lxvb5ZD8)
  Mark makes the case for how his hit cyberthriller,  ZeroDay, is  likely  to  be  realized in non-fiction form in  this 20-minute short version of  his well-popular RSA Conference  session.
- [Zero Day Malware Cleaning with the Sysinternals tools](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsMalwareCleaning.pdf)
 Slides  from Mark’s  highly-rated Blackhat US  2011 presentation  how to  use the Sysinternals tools to  hunt down and eliminate malware.
- [Channel9:  Mark Talks about Windows Security and Core Architecture](https://channel9.msdn.com/showpost.aspx?postid=294410)
Check out Mark’s  Channel 9 interview where he  talks about how he  got started with Windows internals,  new security features in  Windows Vista,  User Account Control,and what he’s doing at  Microsoft.

## Defrag Tools

- [Defrag Tools Shows](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/defrag-tools)
  Episodes 1 – 12 of the *Defrag Tools* shows focus on Sysinternals tools. Each episode covers a specific tool used on the tech support show [Defrag](https://channel9.msdn.com/shows/the-defrag-show), covering when
  and why to use the tools, and providing tips on how to get the most out of them:
  - [Defrag Tools: #1- Building your USB thumbdrive](/shows/defrag-tools/building-your-usb-thumbdrive)
  - [Defrag Tools: #2- Process Explorer](/shows/defrag-tools/2-process-explorer)
  - [Defrag Tools: #3- Process Monitor](/shows/defrag-tools/3-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #4- Process Monitor- Examples](/shows/defrag-tools/4-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #5- Autoruns and MSConfig](/shows/defrag-tools/5-autoruns)
  - [Defrag Tools: #6- RAMMap](/shows/defrag-tools/6-rammap)
  - [Defrag Tools: #7- VMMap](/shows/defrag-tools/7-vmmap)
  - [Defrag Tools: #8- Mark Russinovich](/shows/defrag-tools/live-teched-2014-mark-russinovich)
  - [Defrag Tools: #9- ProcDump](/shows/defrag-tools/9-procdump)
  - [Defrag Tools: #10- ProcDump- Triggers](/shows/defrag-tools/10-procdump-triggers)
  - [Defrag Tools: #11- ProcDump- Windows 8 & Process Monitor](/shows/defrag-tools/11-procdump-windows-8-process-monitor)
  - [Defrag Tools: #12- TaskMgr and ResMon](/shows/defrag-tools/12-taskmgr-resmon)
