---
TOCTitle: Sysinternals Newsletter Vol. 4, No. 3
title: Sysinternals Newsletter Vol. 4, No. 3
description: v04n03 of the late 1990s - early 2000s Sysinternals newsletters written by Mark
archive.url: https://web.archive.org/web/20070224065742/http://blogs.technet.com/sysinternals/archive/2002/10/16/452883.aspx
ms.date: 05/26/2021
---

# The Systems Internals Newsletter Volume 4, Number 3

http://www.sysinternals.com  
Copyright (C) 2002 Mark Russinovich
**********************************************************

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT ISSUE

MICROSOFT LICENSES WINDOWS INTERNALS TUTORIAL

We're excited! Microsoft Corp. has licensed Inside Windows 2000--An
Interactive Video Tutorial, by me and David Solomon, for their corporate
training world wide. Rob Short, Vice President of Core Technologies for
Microsoft Corp. described the courseware this way: "These videos drill
into the core of the platform, capture its technical essence and present
it in a powerful interactive video format."

Senior Microsoft engineers from around the world have said "It's really
a great reference and easy to use", "useful to any IT infrastructure
professional", "I found the content, format, and overall product to be
very valuable to me.", "a great new experience", and "it really hammered
home the points."

To celebrate this ultimate compliment from Microsoft, we have a special
offer for you. For a limited time, when you buy INSIDE Windows 2000 On
Video at the special introductory price of $950 (already a 25% discount)
you'll get a DVD player ABSOULTELY FREE.*

So, order now and start learning Windows internals with the most
powerful tools available!

Order now at: http<nolink>://www.solsem.com/vid_purchase.html
Read the full press release at: http<nolink>://www.solsem.com/pr-mslicense.html

*Free DVD offer good through December 1, 2002. The DVD video set top
player is available only in the continental United States while the
supply lasts. This offer is not valid when combined with other
discounts.

### MARK AND DAVID SOLOMON TEACH INTERNALS IN AUSTIN

If you'd rather learn Windows internals in a live setting, come hear me
and David Solomon present our 3-day Windows 2000/XP/.NET Server
internals class in Austin, TX December 9-11. Based on "Inside Windows
2000, 3rd Edition" and covering content similar to the interactive
tutorial, it covers the kernel architecture & interrelationship of key
system components & mechanisms such as system threads, system call
dispatching, interrupt handling, & startup & shutdown. The internals of
key subsystems explained include processes & threads, thread scheduling,
memory management, security, the I/O system, NTFS, and the cache
manager.

Sign up now at http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/seminar.shtml

Published Wednesday, October 16, 2002 6:57 PM by ottoh
