---
TOCTitle: Sysinternals Newsletter Vol. 5, No. 1
title: Sysinternals Newsletter Vol. 5, No. 1
description: v05n01 of the late 1990s - early 2000s Sysinternals newsletters written by Mark
archive.url: https://web.archive.org/web/20070224065752/http://blogs.technet.com/sysinternals/archive/2003/02/19/452836.aspx
ms.date: 05/26/2021
---

# The Systems Internals Newsletter Volume 5, Number 1

http://www.sysinternals.com  
Copyright (C) 2003 Mark Russinovich
**********************************************************

February 19, 2003 - In this issue:

1. EDITORIAL

2. WHAT'S NEW AT SYSINTERNALS

   - Filemon v5.01
   - DebugView v4.2
   - NewSID v4.02
   - PsShutdown v2.01
   - Autoruns v2.02
   - ShareEnum v1.3
   - TCPView v2.31
   - Bluescreen v3.0
   - Sysinternals at Microsoft

3. INTERNALS INFORMATION

   - New XP/Server 2003 Internals Video
   - Mark and David Solomon Teach Internals and Troubleshooting in Seattle
   - Windows 2000 SP3 Common Criteria Certified
   - Visual Studio: Put a Watch on LastError
   - The LameButtonText Registry Value Explained
   - Windows Development History
   - Introduction to Crash Dump Analysis

> The Sysinternals Newsletter is sponsored by Winternals Software, on the
> Web at http<nolink>://www.winternals.com. Winternals Software is the leading
> developer and provider of advanced systems tools for Windows NT/2K/XP.
> Winternals Software products include ERD Commander 2002, NTFSDOS
> Professional Edition (a read/write NTFS driver for DOS), and Remote
> Recover.
>
> Winternals is proud to announce Defrag Manager version 2.10, the
> fastest, most thorough enterprise-defragmenter available. Now you can
> manage defragmentation schedules across your entire Windows enterprise
> from a simple MMC snapin - without even having to install any client
> software on your NT, Windows 2000 or Windows XP systems. Visit
> http<nolink>://www.winternals.com/es for more information or to request a free
> 30-day trial version.

Hello everyone,

Welcome to the Sysinternals newsletter. The newsletter currently has
36,000 subscribers.

I'm pleased to inform you that David Solomon is the guest author of this
month's editorial, where he describes some of his real-world
troubleshooting experiences with several Sysinternals utilities.

Please pass the newsletter to friends you think might be interested in
its content.

Thanks!

-Mark

## EDITORIAL - by David Solomon

I have a new motto: "When in doubt, run Filemon and Regmon (and Process
Explorer)".

Before I explain, let me first say thanks to Mark for inviting me to
write this guest editorial (of course, since this a glowing report on
how useful his tools are, it's not like he's doing me a big favor or
anything!).

As many of you know, Mark and I work together in helping to educate
people on the internals of Windows. Our latest project was an update to
the Windows 2000 internals video tutorial we created last year to cover
the kernel changes in Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, and our next
public Windows internals class is April 21-23 in Bellevue, Washington-
see details on both in the relevant sections of this newsletter. And, as
many have asked us, we're in the process of our book Inside Windows 2000
for XP & Server 2003 (tentative release date is late summer).

And now, why I am so enthused about the Sysinternals tools? Because in
the last year or so, they've helped me troubleshoot and solve a wide
variety of application and system issues that would otherwise be
unsolvable. In fact, I can't begin to describe the number of totally
different, unrelated issues I've been able to troubleshoot with these
tools. Even in cases where I didn't think they would help, they did.
Hence my new motto, "When in doubt, run Filemon and Regmon".

There are two basic techniques I've found to apply these tools:

1. Look at the last thing in the Filemon/Regmon trace that the
   application did before it failed. This may point to the problem.
2. Compare a Filemon/Regmon trace of the failing application with a
   trace from a working system.

In the first approach, run Filemon and Regmon, then run the application.
At the point the failure occurs, go back to Filemon and Regmon and stop
the logging (press CONTROL+E). Then, go to the end of the log and find
the last operations performed by the application before it failed
(crashed, hung, or whatever). Starting with the last line, work your way
backwards examining the files and/or registry keys referenced-often this
will help pinpoint the problem.

Use the second approach when the application fails on one system but
works on another. Capture a Filemon and Regmon trace of the application
on the working and failing system and save the output to a log file.
Then, open the good and bad log files with Excel (take the defaults on
the import wizard) and delete the first 3 columns (otherwise, the
compare will show up every line as different, since the first 3 columns
contain information that is different from run to run, such as the time
and the process id). Finally, compare the resulting log files (for
example with WinDiff, which on Windows XP is included in the free
Support Tools you can install off the XP CD, or for Windows NT4 and
Windows 2000 you can find it in the Resource Kit).

Now, a few real life examples.

On a Windows 2000 workstation with Microsoft Office 97 installed, Word
would get a Dr. Watson shortly after starting. You could actually type a
few characters before the Dr. Watson occurred, but whether you typed
anything or not, within a few seconds of starting, Word would crash. Of
course, the user had tried uninstalling and reinstalling Office, but the
problem remained. So, I ran Filemon and Regmon and looked at the last
thing done by Word before it died. The Filemon trace showed the last
thing Word did was open an HP printer DLL. Turns out, the workstation
had no printer, but apparently did at one time. So, I deleted the HP
printer from the system and the problem went away!

Apparently, Word's enumerating the printers upon startup caused this DLL
to load, which in turn caused the process to die (why this was happened
I don't know-perhaps the user had installed a bogus version; but since
the system no longer had a printer it really didn't matter).

In another example, the Regmon saved a user from doing a complete
reinstall of his Windows XP desktop system. The symptom was that
Internet Explorer (IE) would hang on startup if the user did not first
manually dial the internet connection. This internet connection was set
as the default connection for the system, so starting IE should have
caused an automatic dialup to the internet (because IE was set to
display a default home page upon startup). Following my new motto, I ran
Filemon and Regmon and looked backwards from the point in the log where
IE hung. Filemon didn't show anything unusual, but the Regmon log showed
a query to a key `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\RAS Phonebook\ATT`.
The user had told me he had the AT&T dialer program installed at one
time, but had uninstalled it and manually created the dialup connection.
Since the dialup connection's name was not "ATT", I suspected this was
left over registry junk from the uninstall that was causing IE to choke.
So, I renamed the key and the problem went away!

Using the "compare the logs" technique helped solve why Access 2000 was
hanging on a programmer's XP workstation trying to import an Excel file.
Importing the same file worked fine on other users' workstations, but
failed on this one workstation. So, a capture was made of Access on the
working and failing system. After appropriately massaging the log files
they were compared with Windiff. The first several differences were due
to names of temporary files being different and due to some filenames
being different due to case differences, but of course these were not
"relevant differences" between the two systems.

The first difference that was not ok was that an Access DLL was being
loaded from `\Windows\System32` on the failing system but from the
`\Program Files\Microsoft Office\Office` folder on the working system.
Comparing the DLLs revealed that the version in `\Windows\System32` was
from a previous version of Access. So, the user renamed that DLL to
`.bad` and re-ran Access and the problem went away!

One class of problems Filemon is incredibly useful for is uncovering
file permission issues. Many applications do a poor job of reporting
access denied errors. However, running Filemon reveals clearly failures
of this type since the result column shows "ACCESS DENIED" for failures
to open files due to rights issues (and the most recent version even
shows the username that failed to access the file). Two specific
examples where this was the case:

1. A user was getting a strange Macro error upon starting Word; turns
   out the permissions on a .DOT file referenced by a macro were changed to
   disallow this user access. Filemon clearly showed Word getting an access
   denied error on the .DOT file. Once the permissions were fixed, the
   problem went away.
2. An Outlook application popped up a message box that said `Application
   defined or object-defined error-Message ID:
   [Connect].[LoadGlobalVariables].[LN:?].[EN:287]`-another example of how
   many applications generate useless error messages on random I/O
   failures. Again, running Filemon revealed an access denied error (this
   time to a folder that Outlook needed to access). The permissions were
   adjusted on the folder and the problem went away.

These are just a few examples-I have many other success stories where
Filemon and Regmon (and Process Explorer, which I didn't discuss here)
have saved the day. It's no wonder Microsoft Product Support uses these
tools on a daily basis to help resolve customer issues (at last count,
some 40 Knowledge Base articles point to Mark's tools-see
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/info/mssysinternals.shtml for a list).

So, when in doubt, run Filemon and Regmon!

David Solomon
David Solomon Expert Seminars
http<nolink>://www.solsem.com

## WHAT'S NEW AT SYSINTERNALS

### FILEMON V5.01

Filemon, one of the utilities David highlights in his editorial, has
undergone its first major revision in several years. The new release
brings a new level of usability to a tool that already had an accessible
user interface. The most significant enhancement is the change to how
file system activity is presented in Filemon's default setting when run
on Windows NT, 2000, XP or Server 2003, something I'd been thinking
about for a while and that I finally implemented based on real user
feedback from David.

Previous versions of Filemon display file system operations with the
textual names of the internal I/O requests that execute the operations.
While technically precise in its presentation, many users are not
familiar with the inner-workings of the Windows I/O subsystem and find
operations like `FASTIO_CHECK_IF_POSSIBLE` meaningless and others, like a
reported failure of a `FASTIO_READ` operation, confusing. There are
numerous other examples of operations that most would classify as
"noise" and operation names that aren't self-explanatory.

Filemon version 5.01's default viewing mode now has a filtering
mechanism to remove the activity that is useless in most troubleshooting
scenarios and that presents intuitive names for all I/O operations.
`FASTIO_CHECK_IF_POSSIBLE` is filtered out, `FASTIO_READ` failures aren't
shown, and `FASTIO_READ`'s that succeed are reported as `READ` operations.
In addition, the default view omits file system activity in the System
process, which is the process from which the Memory and Cache Manager's
perform background activity, and all Memory Manager paging activity,
including that to the system's paging file. The Options|Advanced menu
item will satisfy users, such as file system filter driver developers,
that want the "raw" view of file system activity shown by previous
Filemon versions.

Several users, including Microsoft employees, requested that Filemon
show the account in which "access denied" errors occur in order to aid
security-settings debugging in Terminal Services environments. In
response version 5.01 displays that information as well as the access
mode (read, write, delete, etc) a process wants when it opens a file and
how a file is being opened, for instance whether it's being overwritten
or opened only if it exists.

Many troubleshooting sessions focus on identifying the files a process
accesses or attempts to access, in which case operations like reads,
writes and closes are just noise. In recognition of this fact I've added
a new "log opens" filtering option enables you to isolate just open
operations.

Another major change is in the way Filemon v5.01 handles network-mapped
shares. In previous versions each mapping shows up as a drive letter in
the Drives menu. Now, all such mappings are encompassed in the "Network"
selection of the Volumes menu (which is the renamed Drives menu).
Selecting Network has Filemon monitor all network shares, as well as
report UNC-type network activity of the type that occurs when you access
remote files using the "`\\computer\share\directory`" naming convention.
This change makes it possible for you to view network file activity even
when you don't have a mapped network share, as was required by previous
Filemon versions. There are numerous other minor changes to the latest
Filemon, including an updated menu structure that mirrors the more
usable menus I introduced in Regmon several months ago.

Download Filemon v5.01 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/source/filemon.shtml

### ABOUT FILEMON AND REGMON SOURCE CODE

Developers of software, hardware, and networking products support
Sysinternals by purchasing licenses to redistribute our code. However,
during the past year we've found a range of software, from Trojans to
commercial products from some multi-billion dollar corporations,
containing unlicensed Sysinternals source code. In an effort to keep
Sysinternals growing and our products legally licensed we've
discontinued publishing the source code for some of our products,
including the latest Filemon and Regmon releases. We will continue to
make source code available to commercial licensees. If you discover
mirrors for Sysinternals source code please let us know.

### DEBUGVIEW V4.2

DebugView is a very popular Sysinternals utility that software
developers use to capture debug output generated by their software.
Version v4.2 reflects a number of user-requested enhancements and
features. A Microsoft-requested option allows you to capture debug
output of processes executing within the console session of a Terminal
Services environment when you run DebugView in a non-console session.
V4.2 supports expanded command-line options that allow you to specify a
log file to load, history depth, and other startup behavior. Several
users requested more and longer filters, filtering on process IDs, and
the ability to insert comments into the output, all of which are
possible with the latest version. The new release is rounded out with
several bug fixes, better support for extracting kernel-debug output
from crash dump files, and better balloon windows for text that exceeds
the width of its output column and even the screen.

Download DebugView v4.2 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/freeware/debugview.shtml

### NEWSID V4.02

The SID (Security ID) duplication problem is one that you'll encounter
if you use a preinstall Windows image to deploy more than one system.
Each computer that shares the image has the same internal Windows SID,
which is an identifier that the Windows security subsystem uses as the
basis for local group and account identifiers. Because of the security
issues the sharing can cause most administrators take steps to
post-apply a unique SID to each computer using a SID changing tool.

NewSID, Sysinternals' SID-changer, is popular because unlike other
changers that rely on DOS or require that a system be free of add-on
software, NewSID is a Win32 program that you can use to assign a new SID
to computers that have installed applications. Version 4.02 is major
update that has a new Wizard interface, adds support for Windows XP, and
lets you rename a computer.

A feature requested by many administrators is NewSIDs ability to apply a
SID that you specify, something that might be useful for migrating an
installation's settings to a different computer or for reinstalling. As
NewSID runs it causes the Registry to grow when it applies temporary
security settings to portions of the Registry in order to make them
accessible. This bloating can cause the Registry to exceed its size
quota so a new v4.02 function compresses the Registry to its minimum
size as its last step of operation.

Download NewSID v4.02 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/source/newsid.shtml

### PSSHUTDOWN V2.01

Shutdown is a tool that Microsoft has long included in the Windows
Resource Kit and that is included in Windows XP installations. Prior to
v2.01 PsShutdown, a member of Sysinternals PsTools command-line
administration toolkit, was simply a clone Shutdown, but this latest
release expands its capabilities far beyond those of Shutdown's. For
example, you can shutdown and power-off if a system supports power
management, lock the desktop, and logoff the interactive user, all on
the local or a remote machine, without manually installing any client
software.

Download PsShutdown v2.01 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/freeware/psshutdown.shtml  
Download the entire PsTools suite at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/freeware/pstools.shtml

### AUTORUNS V2.02

We've all been annoyed by the installation of unwanted applets that run
when we log in and been frustrated in our search for their startup
command. It's no wonder when Windows has close to 2-dozen mechanisms for
such activation. The MsConfig utility included with Windows Me and XP
can sometimes help, but it misses roughly half of the possible startup
locations.

Autoruns, a Sysinternals tool written by Bryce Cogswell and myself,
shows you the whole picture. Its display shows a list of all the
possible Registry and file locations where an application can enable
itself to run at system startup or logon. The latest version displays
icon and version information for each startup-configured image for easy
identification and adds user-interface enhancements like a context menu.
In addition, the new version identifies more startup locations,
including logon and logoff scripts, task scheduler tasks that execute
upon logon, and Explorer add-on launch points.

Download Autoruns v2.01 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/source/misc.shtml

### SHAREENUM V1.3
Systems administrators often overlook a critical part of local network
security: shared folders. Users within a corporate environment
frequently create shares to folders containing documents in order to
provide easy access to coworkers in their group. Unfortunately, many
users fail to lock down their shares with settings that prevent
unauthorized access to potentially sensitive information by other
employees.

ShareEnum is a Sysinternals utility written by Bryce Cogswell that helps
you to identify rogue shares and tighten security on valid ones. When
you start ShareEnum it uses NetBIOS enumeration to locate computers on
your network and reports the shares they export along with details on
the security settings applied to the shares. Within seconds you can spot
open shares and double-click on a share to open it in Explorer so that
you can modify its settings. You can also use ShareEnum's export feature
to save scans and compare a current scan to one you've previously saved.

Download ShareEnum v1.3 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/source/shareenum.shtml

### TCPVIEW V2.31

TCPView is a graphical netstat-type utility that displays a list of a
system's active TCP and UDP endpoints. On Windows NT, 2000, XP and
Server 2003 installations it shows you the process that owns each
endpoint. Version 2.31 displays the icon of a process' image file for
easier identification.

Download TCPView v2.31 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/source/tcpview.shtml

### BLUESCREEN V3.0

The Sysinternals Bluescreen of Death Screensaver has been a favorite
download for several years and version 3.0 adds Windows XP
compatibility. The screensaver displays an authentic-looking blue screen
of death, complete with formatting and random details appropriate to the
operating system on which its run (e.g. Windows NT, 2000, or XP), and
after a pause simulates a reboot cycle and subsequent repeat of a
different crash screen. It's so convincing that David Solomon has fooled
me with it and I've fooled him with it. Use it as your own screen saver
or to fool your friends and coworkers, but make sure that your boss has
a sense of humor before you install it on a production system.

Download Bluescreen v3.0 at  
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/ntw2k/freeware/bluescreensaver.shtml

### SYSINTERNALS AT WWW.MICROSOFT.COM

Here's the latest installment of Sysinternals references in Microsoft
Knowledge Base (KB) articles released since the last newsletter. I'm
honored to report that this brings to 41 the total number of KB
references to Sysinternals.

- ACC2000: Error Message: ActiveX Component Can't Create Object
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;EN-US;Q319841&

- HOW TO: Troubleshoot ASP in IIS 5.0
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;EN-US;Q309051&

- OL2002: How to Create Trusted Outlook COM Add-ins
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;en-us;327657&

- PRB: Error 80004005 "The Microsoft Jet Database Engine Cannot Open the
  File '(Unknown)'"
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;EN-US;Q306269&

- User Profile Unload Failure When You Start, Quit, or Log Off NetMeeting
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;EN-US;Q327612&

- XADM: Error Message: Error 123: The Filename, Directory Name, or Volume
  Label Syntax Is Incorrect
  http<nolink>://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=KB;EN-US;Q318746&

## INTERNALS INFORMATION

### NEW XP/SERVER 2003 INTERNALS VIDEO

Our new video update on Windows XP/Server 2003 internal changes is
available for pre-release ordering! As an adjunct to our existing video
tutorial, INSIDE Windows 2000, or as a standalone product in its own
right, this new video provides training on the kernel changes in Windows
XP and Microsoft's new product Windows Server 2003, which will launch in
April. Topics covered include performance, scalability, 64 bit support,
file systems, reliability, and recovery.

In the same interactive style as its predecessor, the Windows XP/Server
2003 Update puts you across the desk from David Solomon and Mark
Russinovich for 76 minutes of highly focused, intensive training. It
includes review questions, lab exercises and a printed workbook, and is
available in DVD video and Windows Media on CD-ROM.

Because these videos were developed with full access to the Windows
source code and development team, you know you're getting the real
story. As the ultimate compliment, Microsoft has licensed this video for
their internal training worldwide.

SPECIAL PRE-RELEASE PRICING IF YOU PURCHASE BEFORE MARCH 15! Buy INSIDE
Windows 2000 for $950 and get the Windows XP/Server 2003 Update FREE!
That's almost 40% off the combined retail value of $1,390. Or, buy the
standalone Windows XP/Server 2003 Update video for only $169 ($195
retail value). Other license configurations available from the web
site. To take advantage of this limited time offer, order now at
http<nolink>://www.solsem.com/vid_purchase.html

### MARK AND DAVID SOLOMON TEACH INTERNALS AND TROUBLESHOOTING IN BELLEVUE, WA

Hear me and David Solomon present our 3-day Windows 2000/XP/.NET Server
internals class in Bellevue, WA (near Seattle) April 21-23. Based on
"Inside Windows 2000, 3rd Edition", it covers the kernel architecture &
interrelationship of key system components & mechanisms such as system
threads, system call dispatching, interrupt handling, & startup &
shutdown. Learn advanced troubleshooting techniques using the
Sysinternals tools and how to use Windbg for basic crash dump analysis.
The internals of key subsystems covered include processes & threads,
thread scheduling, memory management, security, the I/O system, and the
cache manager. By understanding the inner workings of the OS, you can
take advantage of the platform more effectively and more effectively
debug and troubleshoot problems.

To register or for more information see
http<nolink>://www.sysinternals.com/seminar.shtml

### WINDOWS 2000 SP3 COMMON CRITERIA CERTIFIED

Many of you are probably familiar with the terms "Orange Book" and C2,
both of which are related to an outdated security evaluation standard
used throughout the 1980's and 90's by the US government to rate the
security capabilities of software, including operating systems. Since
1999 the Orange Book ratings, which were part of the Department of
Defense Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria (TCSEC), have been
subsumed by the newer Common Criteria (CC) system. The CC was agreed
upon by multiple nations as an international security ratings standard
that is richer than TSCEC and England's obsolete Information Technology
Security (ITSEC) ratings.

When a vendor has their software certified against the CC standard they
specify a "protection profile", which is a set of security features, and
the evaluation reports a level of assurance, known as an Evaluation
Assurance Level (EAL), that the software meets the requirements of the
protection profile. There are 7 EALs with higher assurance levels
indicating greater confidence in the reliability of the evaluated
software's security features.

Microsoft submitted Windows 2000 for CC rating against the Controlled
Access Protection Profiles, which is roughly the CC equivalent of the
TCSEC C2 rating, several years ago and in October of 2002 its evaluation
completed. Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), the
independent company that performed the evaluation, found Windows 2000
with Service Pack 3 to meet the Control Access Protection Profile with
an Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL) of 4 plus Flaw Remediation. An EAL
of 4 is considered the highest level achievable by general purpose
software, and Flaw Remediation refers to the Windows Update mechanism
for timely application of security fixes. This rating is the highest
level achieved thus far under the CC by an operating system.

### VISUAL STUDIO: PUT A WATCH ON LASTERROR

If you develop applications that rely on the Win32 API then you've
almost certainly have written code that executes a Win32 function, but
for whatever reason doesn't report specific errors. If so, you'll find
this tip useful. By adding the expression `@ERR,hr` to the watch window
you'll see the numeric and textual representation of the value stored as
the current thread's `LastError` variable, which is the value returned by
the `GetLastError()` Win32 function.

### THE LAMEBUTTONTEXT REGISTRY VALUE EXPLAINED

If you've examined the Regmon traces on a Windows 2000 or XP system of a
Windows application startup you've probably seen references to the
Registry value `HKCU\Control Panel\Desktop\LameButtonText`, usually with a
`NOTFOUND` error. Someone at Microsoft obviously has a sense of humor, but
what's this value for? It turns out it stores the text that you see in
Windows beta and release candidate releases on window title bars that
directs you to click on a link in order to report feedback. It would be
cool if you could enable it on non-pre-release versions of Windows to
place custom text, but its functionality is unfortunately disabled on
production releases.

### WINDOWS DEVELOPMENT HISTORY

Paul Thurrott has a nice 3-part article series going on the history of
the Windows NT development process. Check it out at
http<nolink>://www.winsupersite.com/reviews/winserver2k3_gold1.asp

### A QUICK INTRODUCTION TO CRASH DUMP ANALYSIS

When a system crashes immediately after you've installed new hardware or
software diagnosing the cause is obvious. Sometimes, however, system
crashes occur occasionally and there's no apparent reason. In such cases
the only way to determine the cause of the crash is to analyze a crash
dump. In this tutorial I'll describe how Microsoft's Online Crash
Analysis (OCA) works and how it may give you the answer to a crash
puzzle, and then tell you how to set up your own crash analysis
environment so that you can take a look at crashes that OCA won't or
cannot successfully analyze.

Microsoft introduced OCA with the release of Windows XP to be an
automated analysis service based on a centralized repository of
crash-related information. After an XP system reboots from a crash it
prompts you to send in crash information to the OCA site
(http<nolink>://oca.microsoft.com/en/Welcome.asp). If you agree, XP uploads an
XML file that describes your basic system configuration along with a 64
KB minidump crash file. A minidump contains a small amount of data
immediately relevant to a crash such as the crash code, the stack of the
thread that was executing at the time of the crash, list of drivers
loaded on the system, and the data structures managing the process
running when the crash happened.

Once OCA receives the information it proceeds to analyze it and stores
the analysis summary in a database. If you follow the prompt after the
upload and visit the OCA site you're offered the opportunity to track
the analysis. This requires that you sign in with a Passport account.
You then enter a name for the crash and some text describing the nature
of the crash. If the OCA engine correlates the crash with others in the
database for which Microsoft has identified a cause the site notifies
you by e-mail and when you revisit the site and lookup the crash you
submitted the resolution tells you where to get a driver or operating
system update. Unfortunately, while OCA support is built into XP and it
accepts Windows 2000 crash dump files, it doesn't support NT 4 and
cannot identify the cause of most crashes (at least in my experience).

In order to perform crash analysis yourself, you'll need the appropriate
tools, which Microsoft provides in the form of the Debugging Tools for
Windows package that you can download from
http<nolink>://www.microsoft.com/ddk/Debugging/. The package includes, among
other things, the Windbg analysis tool. After you've downloaded and
installed the tools, run Windbg and open the File|Symbol File Path
dialog. There you tell Windbg where to find symbol files for the version
of the operating system from which a crash you're analyzing generated.
You can enter a path to a directory where you've installed symbols,
however that requires you to obtain symbol files for the exact operating
system, service pack, and hot fixes installed on the crashing system.
Manually keeping up with symbol files is tedious and if you want to
analyze crashes from different systems you have to worry about different
sets of symbol files for each different installation.

You can avoid symbol file hassle by pointing the Windbg at Microsoft's
symbol server. When you configure it to use the symbol server Windbg
automatically downloads symbol files on demand based on the crash dump
you open. The symbol server stores symbols for NT 4 through Server 2003
betas and release candidates, including service packs and hot fixes. The
syntax for directing Windbg to the symbol server is
`srv*c:\symbols*http://msdl.microsoft.com/download/symbols`. Replace
`c:\symbols` with the directory where you want to store symbol files. For
more information on symbols, see
http<nolink>://www.microsoft.com/ddk/debugging/symbols.asp

There's one more step you have to perform before you're ready to analyze
crash dumps: configure your systems to generate them. Do this by opening
the System applet in the control panel and, on Win2k and higher,
clicking on the Startup/Shutdown button of the Advanced page. On NT 4,
go to the Startup/Shutdown tab of the applet. The only crash dump option
on NT 4 systems is a full memory dump, where the entire contents of
physical memory at the time of a crash are saved to the file you
specify. On Win2k and higher there are three options: mini, kernel, and
full. Win2K & XP Professional and Home default to mini; Server systems
default to full. For workstation/client machines, change the setting
from mini to kernel dump, which saves only parts of physical memory
owned by the operating system (as opposed to applications), since that
minimizes the size of the crash dump file and still provides full
information on kernel data structures that Windbg needs to effectively
analyze a crash. For Server systems, full dumps are fine, but kernel
dumps are a safe choice (and possibly your only choice if you have a
very large memory system).

Now you're ready to analyze a crash. When one occurs simply load the
resulting dump file into Windbg by selecting the File|Open Crash Dump
menu option. As the dump loads Windbg begins to process it and you'll
see messages about the operating system version and symbol loading. Then
you'll see a message with the text "Bugcheck Analysis". The output
following the message reports the crash code and crash code's
parameters, as well as a "probably caused by".

In some cases the basic analysis Windbg performs here is enough to
identify the faulting driver or kernel component. I recommend, however,
always entering the following command: `!analyze -v`. This command results
in the same analysis, but with more information. For example, text will
explain the meaning of the crash code and tell you what the optional
parameters represent, sometimes with advice on what to try next. You'll
also see a stack trace, which is a record of function execution leading
to the code in which the crash occurred. If a driver passes faulty data
to the kernel or a driver pinpointed by the analysis you might see its
name in the trace and can identify it as a possible root cause.

If you want to dig deeper into the state of the system at the time of
the crash there are numerous Windbg commands that let you see the list
of processes running, drivers loaded, memory usage, and more. The Windbg
help file also contains a bugcheck reference that I recommend you follow
up with for more information and guidance, and if you still end up
stumped I recommend that you perform a search in Microsoft's Knowledge
Base (KB) for the crash code. Microsoft creates KB articles for common
crashes and conducts you to vendor sites or hot fixes that remedy
particular problems.

If you want to see me present this information live, with examples, then
check me out at any of the following conferences:

- The internals and troubleshooting seminar David and I are delivering
  in April in Bellevue, WA
- Windows and .NET Magazine Connections in Scottsdale, AZ in May:
  http<nolink>://www.winconnections.com/win
- TechEd US (Dallas) or TechEd Europe (in Barcelona) this summer

**********************************************************

Thank you for reading the Sysinternals Newsletter.

Published Wednesday, February 19, 2003 4:47 PM by ottoh
