sysinternals/downloads/du.md, before:

---
TOCTitle: Disk Usage 
title: Disk Usage 
description: View disk usage by directory.
ms:assetid: '428a14a6-d688-41bc-a769-5d5052ead7a0' 
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb896651(v=MSDN.10)' 
ms.date: 11/04/2020
---

# Disk Usage v1.62

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: November 04, 2020

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip)] [**Download Du**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) **(1.62 MB)**

## Introduction

Du (disk usage) reports the disk space usage for the directory you
specify. By default it recurses directories to show the total size of a
directory and its subdirectories.

## Using Disk Usage (DU)

**Usage: du \[-c\[t\]\] \[-l &lt;levels&gt; | -n | -v\] \[-u\] \[-q\]
&lt;directory&gt;**

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-c** |  Print output as CSV. Use -ct for tab delimiting.|
|  **-l** |  Specify subdirectory depth of information (default is all levels).|
|  **-n** |  Do not recurse.|
|  **-v** |  Show size (in KB) of intermediate directories.|
|  **-u** |  Count each instance of a hardlinked file.|
|  **-q** |  Quiet (no banner).|

CSV output is formatted as:

Path, CurrentFileCount, CurrentFileSize, FileCount, DirectoryCount,
DirectorySize

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) [**Download Du**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) **(1.62 MB)**

Commit message:

Update doc to be consistent with command help
The online documentation does not include the `-nobanner` option, and does not show **DirectorySizeOnDisk** is part of the CSV output.

Output of `du.exe /?` for v1.62:
```
DU v1.62 - Directory disk usage reporter
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Mark Russinovich
Sysinternals - www.sysinternals.com

usage: c:\sysinternals\du.exe [-c[t]] [-l <levels> | -n | -v] [-u] [-q] <directory>
   -c     Print output as CSV. Use -ct for tab delimiting.
          Use -nobanner to suppress banner.
   -l     Specify subdirectory depth of information (default is one level).
   -n     Do not recurse.
   -q     Quiet.
   -nobanner
          Do not display the startup banner and copyright message.
   -u     Count each instance of a hardlinked file.
   -v     Show size (in KB) of all subdirectories.

CSV output is formatted as:
Path,CurrentFileCount,CurrentFileSize,FileCount,DirectoryCount,DirectorySize,DirectorySizeOnDisk
```

sysinternals/downloads/du.md, after:

---
TOCTitle: Disk Usage 
title: Disk Usage 
description: View disk usage by directory.
ms:assetid: '428a14a6-d688-41bc-a769-5d5052ead7a0' 
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb896651(v=MSDN.10)' 
ms.date: 11/04/2020
---

# Disk Usage v1.62

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: November 04, 2020

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip)] [**Download Du**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) **(1.62 MB)**

## Introduction

Du (disk usage) reports the disk space usage for the directory you
specify. By default it recurses directories to show the total size of a
directory and its subdirectories.

## Using Disk Usage (DU)

**Usage: du \[-c\[t\]\] \[-l &lt;levels&gt; | -n | -v\] \[-u\] \[-q\]
&lt;directory&gt;**

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-c** |  Print output as CSV. Use -ct for tab delimiting.|
|  **-l** |  Specify subdirectory depth of information (default is one level).|
|  **-n** |  Do not recurse.|
|  **-v** |  Show size (in KB) of intermediate directories.|
|  **-u** |  Count each instance of a hardlinked file.|
|  **-q** |  Quiet.|
|  **-nobanner** |  Do not display the startup banner and copyright message.|

CSV output is formatted as:

Path, CurrentFileCount, CurrentFileSize, FileCount, DirectoryCount,
DirectorySize, DirectorySizeOnDisk

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) [**Download Du**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/DU.zip) **(1.62 MB)**
