sysinternals/downloads/index.md, before:

---
TOCTitle: Sysinternals Utilities
title: Sysinternals Utilities
description: Evaluate and find out how to install, deploy, and maintain Windows with Sysinternals utilities.
ms:assetid: 'aefdbd0d-e21b-45ad-8e2b-b69cb8e04d5f'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb545027(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 05/05/2025
---

# Sysinternals Utilities Index

[Sysinternals Suite](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite.zip)  
The entire set of Sysinternals Utilities rolled up into a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite for Nano Server](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite-Nano.zip)  
Sysinternals Utilities for Nano Server in a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite for ARM64](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite-ARM64.zip)  
Sysinternals Utilities for ARM64 in a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite from the Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9p7knl5rwt25)  
Sysinternals Utilities installation and updates via Microsoft Store.

[AccessChk](accesschk.md)  
*v6.15 (May 11, 2022)*  
AccessChk is a command-line tool for viewing the effective permissions
on files, registry keys, services, processes, kernel objects, and more.

[AccessEnum](accessenum.md)  
*v1.35 (September 29, 2022)*  
This simple yet powerful security tool shows you who has what access to
directories, files and Registry keys on your systems. Use it to find
holes in your permissions.

[AdExplorer](adexplorer.md)  
*v1.52 (November 28, 2022)*  
Active Directory Explorer is an advanced Active Directory (AD) viewer
and editor.  

[AdInsight](adinsight.md)  
*v1.2 (October 26, 2015)*  
An LDAP (Light-weight Directory Access Protocol) real-time monitoring
tool aimed at troubleshooting Active Directory client applications.

[AdRestore](adrestore.md)  
*v1.2 (November 25, 2020)*  
Undelete Server 2003 Active Directory objects.

[Autologon](autologon.md)  
*v3.10 (August 29, 2016)*  
Bypass password screen during logon.

[Autoruns](autoruns.md)  
*v14.11 (February 6, 2024)*  
See what programs are configured to startup automatically when your
system boots and you login. Autoruns also shows you the full list of
Registry and file locations where applications can configure auto-start
settings.

[BgInfo](bginfo.md)  
*v4.33 (February 13, 2025)*  
This fully-configurable program automatically generates desktop
backgrounds that include important information about the system
including IP addresses, computer name, network adapters, and more.

[BlueScreen](bluescreen.md)  
*v3.2 (November 1, 2006)*  
This screen saver not only accurately simulates Blue Screens, but
simulated reboots as well (complete with CHKDSK), and works on Windows
NT 4, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Server 2003 and Windows 95 and 98.

[CacheSet](cacheset.md)  
*v1.02 (December 16, 2021)*  
CacheSet is a program that allows you to control the Cache Manager's
working set size using functions provided by NT. It's compatible with
all versions of NT.

[ClockRes](clockres.md)  
*v2.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
View the resolution of the system clock, which is also the maximum timer
resolution.

[Contig](contig.md)  
*v1.83 (March 9, 2023)*  
Wish you could quickly defragment your frequently used files? Use Contig
to optimize individual files, or to create new files that are
contiguous.

[Coreinfo](coreinfo.md)  
*v3.6 (September 29, 2022)*  
Coreinfo is a new command-line utility that shows you the mapping
between logical processors and the physical processor, NUMA node, and
socket on which they reside, as well as the cache’s assigned to each
logical processor.

[Ctrl2Cap](ctrl2cap.md)  
*v3.0 (February 13, 2025)*  
Ctrl2Cap is a tool to help remap the Caps Lock key to Ctrl.

[DebugView](debugview.md)  
*v4.90 (April 23, 2019)*  
Another first from Sysinternals: This program intercepts calls made to
DbgPrint by device drivers and OutputDebugString made by Win32 programs.
It allows for viewing and recording of debug session output on your
local machine or across the Internet without an active debugger.

[Desktops](desktops.md)  
*v2.01 (October 12, 2021)*  
This new utility enables you to create up to four virtual desktops and
to use a tray interface or hotkeys to preview what’s on each desktop and
easily switch between them.

[Disk2vhd](disk2vhd.md)  
*v2.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
Disk2vhd simplifies the migration of physical systems into virtual
machines (p2v.md).

[DiskExt](diskext.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Display volume disk-mappings.

[Diskmon](diskmon.md)  
*v2.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
This utility captures all hard disk activity or acts like a software
disk activity light in your system tray.

[DiskView](diskview.md)  
*v2.41 (October 15, 2020*)  
Graphical disk sector utility.

[Disk Usage (DU)](du.md)  
*v1.62 (November 04, 2020)*  
View disk usage by directory.

[EFSDump](efsdump.md)  
*v1.03 (October 12, 2021)*  
View information for encrypted files.

[FindLinks](findlinks.md)  
*v1.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
FindLinks reports the file index and any hard links (alternate file
paths on the same volume.md) that exist for the specified file.  A file's
data remains allocated so long as at it has at least one file name
referencing it.

[Handle](handle.md)  
*v5.0 (October 26, 2022)*  
This handy command-line utility will show you what files are open by
which processes, and much more.

[Hex2dec](hex2dec.md)  
*v1.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
Convert hex numbers to decimal and vice versa.

[Junction](junction.md)  
*v1.07 (July 4, 2016)*  
Create Win2K NTFS symbolic links.

[LDMDump](ldmdump.md)  
*v1.02 (November 1, 2006)*  
Dump the contents of the Logical Disk Manager's on-disk database, which
describes the partitioning of Windows 2000 Dynamic disks.

[ListDLLs](listdlls.md)  
*v3.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
List all the DLLs that are currently loaded, including where they are
loaded and their version numbers.

[LiveKd](livekd.md)  
*v5.62 (May 16, 2017)*  
Use Microsoft kernel debuggers to examine a live system.

[LoadOrder](loadorder.md)  
*v1.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
See the order in which devices are loaded on your WinNT/2K system.

[LogonSessions](logonsessions.md)  
*v1.41 (November 25, 2020)*  
List the active logon sessions on a system.

[MoveFile](pendmoves.md)  
*v1.02 (September 17, 2020)*  
Allows you to schedule move and delete commands for the next reboot.

[NotMyFault](notmyfault.md)  
*v4.21 (September 29, 2022)*  
Notmyfault is a tool that you can use to crash, hang, and cause kernel
memory leaks on your Windows system.

[NTFSInfo](ntfsinfo.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Use NTFSInfo to see detailed information about NTFS volumes, including
the size and location of the Master File Table (MFT) and MFT-zone, as
well as the sizes of the NTFS meta-data files.

[PendMoves](pendmoves.md)  
*v1.3 (September 17, 2020)*  
Enumerate the list of file rename and delete commands that will be
executed the next boot.

[PipeList](pipelist.md)  
*v1.02 (July 4, 2016)*  
Displays the named pipes on your system, including the number of maximum
instances and active instances for each pipe.

[PortMon](portmon.md)  
*v3.03 (January 12, 2012)*  
Monitor serial and parallel port activity with this advanced monitoring
tool. It knows about all standard serial and parallel IOCTLs and even
shows you a portion of the data being sent and received. Version 3.x has
powerful new UI enhancements and advanced filtering capabilities.

[ProcDump](procdump.md)  
*v11.0 (November 3, 2022)*  
This command-line utility is aimed at capturing process dumps of
otherwise difficult to isolate and reproduce CPU spikes. It also serves
as a general process dump creation utility and can also monitor and
generate process dumps when a process has a hung window or unhandled
exception.

[Process Explorer](process-explorer.md)  
*v17.06 (May 28, 2024)*  
Find out what files, registry keys and other objects processes have
open, which DLLs they have loaded, and more. This uniquely powerful
utility will even show you who owns each process.

[Process Monitor](procmon.md)  
*v4.01 (June 20, 2024)*  
Monitor file system, Registry, process, thread and DLL activity in
real-time.

[PsExec](psexec.md)  
*v2.43 (April 11, 2023)*  
Execute processes on remote systems.

[PsFile](psfile.md)  
*v1.04 (March 30, 2023)*  
See what files are opened remotely.

[PsGetSid](psgetsid.md)  
*v1.46 (March 30, 2023)*  
Displays the SID of a computer or a user.

[PsInfo](psinfo.md)  
*v1.79 (March 30, 2023)*  
Obtain information about a system.

[PsKill](pskill.md)  
*v1.17 (March 30, 2023)*  
Terminate local or remote processes.

[PsPing](psping.md)  
*v2.12 (March 30, 2023)*  
Measure network performance.

[PsList](pslist.md)  
*v1.41 (March 30, 2023)*  
Show information about processes and threads.

[PsLoggedOn](psloggedon.md)  
*v1.35 (June 29, 2016)*  
Show users logged on to a system.

[PsLogList](psloglist.md)  
*v2.82 (March 30, 2023)*  
Dump event log records.

[PsPasswd](pspasswd.md)  
*v1.25 (March 30, 2023)*  
Changes account passwords.

[PsService](psservice.md)  
*v2.26 (March 30, 2023)*  
View and control services.

[PsShutdown](psshutdown.md)  
*v2.6 (March 30, 2023)*  
Shuts down and optionally reboots a computer.

[PsSuspend](pssuspend.md)  
*v1.08 (March 30, 2023)*  
Suspend and resume processes.

[PsTools](pstools.md)  
*v2.51 (April 11, 2023)*  
The PsTools suite includes command-line utilities for listing the
processes running on local or remote computers, running processes
remotely, rebooting computers, dumping event logs, and more.

[RAMMap](rammap.md)  
*v1.61 (May 11, 2022)*  
An advanced physical memory usage analysis utility that presents usage
information in different ways on its several different tabs.

[RDCMan](rdcman.md)  
*v3.1 (May 5, 2025)*  
Manage multiple remote desktop connections.

[RegDelNull](regdelnull.md)  
*v1.11 (July 4, 2016)*  
Scan for and delete Registry keys that contain embedded null-characters
that are otherwise undeleteable by standard Registry-editing tools.

[Registry Usage (RU)](ru.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
View the registry space usage for the specified registry key.

[RegJump](regjump.md)  
*v1.11 (October 12, 2021)*  
Jump to the registry path you specify in Regedit.

[SDelete](sdelete.md)  
*v2.05 (September 29, 2023)*  
Securely overwrite your sensitive files and cleanse your free space of
previously deleted files using this DoD-compliant secure delete program.

[ShareEnum](shareenum.md)  
*v1.61 (October 12, 2021)*  
Scan file shares on your network and view their security settings to
close security holes.

[ShellRunas](shellrunas.md)  
*v1.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
Launch programs as a different user via a convenient shell context-menu
entry.

[Sigcheck](sigcheck.md)  
*v2.90 (July 19, 2022)*  
Dump file version information and verify that images on your system are
digitally signed.

[Streams](streams.md)  
*v1.6 (July 4, 2016)*  
Reveal NTFS alternate streams.

[Strings](strings.md)  
*v2.54 (June 22, 2021)*  
Search for ANSI and UNICODE strings in binary images.

[Sync](sync.md)  
*v2.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Flush cached data to disk.

[Sysmon](sysmon.md)  
*v15.15 (July 23, 2024)*  
Monitors and reports key system activity via the Windows event log.

[TCPView](tcpview.md)  
*v4.19 (April 11, 2023)*  
Active socket viewer.

[VMMap](vmmap.md)  
*v3.4 (October 18, 2023)*  
VMMap is a process virtual and physical memory analysis utility.

[VolumeId](volumeid.md)  
*v2.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
Set Volume ID of FAT or NTFS drives.

[Whois](whois.md)  
*v1.20 (December 11, 2019)*  
See who owns an Internet address.

[WinObj](winobj.md)  
*v3.14 (January 27, 2022)*  
The ultimate Object Manager namespace viewer is here.

[ZoomIt](zoomit.md)  
*v9.0 (December 16, 2024)*  
Presentation utility for zooming and drawing on the screen.

Commit message:

Add content for September 2025 publish

sysinternals/downloads/index.md, after:

---
TOCTitle: Sysinternals Utilities
title: Sysinternals Utilities
description: Evaluate and find out how to install, deploy, and maintain Windows with Sysinternals utilities.
ms:assetid: 'aefdbd0d-e21b-45ad-8e2b-b69cb8e04d5f'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb545027(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 09/16/2025
---

# Sysinternals Utilities Index

[Sysinternals Suite](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite.zip)  
The entire set of Sysinternals Utilities rolled up into a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite for Nano Server](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite-Nano.zip)  
Sysinternals Utilities for Nano Server in a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite for ARM64](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SysinternalsSuite-ARM64.zip)  
Sysinternals Utilities for ARM64 in a single download.

[Sysinternals Suite from the Microsoft Store](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9p7knl5rwt25)  
Sysinternals Utilities installation and updates via Microsoft Store.

[AccessChk](accesschk.md)  
*v6.15 (May 11, 2022)*  
AccessChk is a command-line tool for viewing the effective permissions
on files, registry keys, services, processes, kernel objects, and more.

[AccessEnum](accessenum.md)  
*v1.35 (September 29, 2022)*  
This simple yet powerful security tool shows you who has what access to
directories, files and Registry keys on your systems. Use it to find
holes in your permissions.

[AdExplorer](adexplorer.md)  
*v1.52 (November 28, 2022)*  
Active Directory Explorer is an advanced Active Directory (AD) viewer
and editor.  

[AdInsight](adinsight.md)  
*v1.2 (October 26, 2015)*  
An LDAP (Light-weight Directory Access Protocol) real-time monitoring
tool aimed at troubleshooting Active Directory client applications.

[AdRestore](adrestore.md)  
*v1.2 (November 25, 2020)*  
Undelete Server 2003 Active Directory objects.

[Autologon](autologon.md)  
*v3.10 (August 29, 2016)*  
Bypass password screen during logon.

[Autoruns](autoruns.md)  
*v14.11 (February 6, 2024)*  
See what programs are configured to startup automatically when your
system boots and you login. Autoruns also shows you the full list of
Registry and file locations where applications can configure auto-start
settings.

[BgInfo](bginfo.md)  
*v4.33 (February 13, 2025)*  
This fully-configurable program automatically generates desktop
backgrounds that include important information about the system
including IP addresses, computer name, network adapters, and more.

[BlueScreen](bluescreen.md)  
*v3.2 (November 1, 2006)*  
This screen saver not only accurately simulates Blue Screens, but
simulated reboots as well (complete with CHKDSK), and works on Windows
NT 4, Windows 2000, Windows XP, Server 2003 and Windows 95 and 98.

[CacheSet](cacheset.md)  
*v1.02 (December 16, 2021)*  
CacheSet is a program that allows you to control the Cache Manager's
working set size using functions provided by NT. It's compatible with
all versions of NT.

[ClockRes](clockres.md)  
*v2.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
View the resolution of the system clock, which is also the maximum timer
resolution.

[Contig](contig.md)  
*v1.83 (March 9, 2023)*  
Wish you could quickly defragment your frequently used files? Use Contig
to optimize individual files, or to create new files that are
contiguous.

[Coreinfo](coreinfo.md)  
*v3.6 (September 29, 2022)*  
Coreinfo is a new command-line utility that shows you the mapping
between logical processors and the physical processor, NUMA node, and
socket on which they reside, as well as the cache’s assigned to each
logical processor.

[Ctrl2Cap](ctrl2cap.md)  
*v3.0 (February 13, 2025)*  
Ctrl2Cap is a tool to help remap the Caps Lock key to Ctrl.

[DebugView](debugview.md)  
*v4.90 (April 23, 2019)*  
Another first from Sysinternals: This program intercepts calls made to
DbgPrint by device drivers and OutputDebugString made by Win32 programs.
It allows for viewing and recording of debug session output on your
local machine or across the Internet without an active debugger.

[Desktops](desktops.md)  
*v2.01 (October 12, 2021)*  
This new utility enables you to create up to four virtual desktops and
to use a tray interface or hotkeys to preview what’s on each desktop and
easily switch between them.

[Disk2vhd](disk2vhd.md)  
*v2.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
Disk2vhd simplifies the migration of physical systems into virtual
machines (p2v.md).

[DiskExt](diskext.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Display volume disk-mappings.

[Diskmon](diskmon.md)  
*v2.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
This utility captures all hard disk activity or acts like a software
disk activity light in your system tray.

[DiskView](diskview.md)  
*v2.41 (October 15, 2020*)  
Graphical disk sector utility.

[Disk Usage (DU)](du.md)  
*v1.62 (November 04, 2020)*  
View disk usage by directory.

[EFSDump](efsdump.md)  
*v1.03 (October 12, 2021)*  
View information for encrypted files.

[FindLinks](findlinks.md)  
*v1.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
FindLinks reports the file index and any hard links (alternate file
paths on the same volume.md) that exist for the specified file.  A file's
data remains allocated so long as at it has at least one file name
referencing it.

[Handle](handle.md)  
*v5.0 (October 26, 2022)*  
This handy command-line utility will show you what files are open by
which processes, and much more.

[Hex2dec](hex2dec.md)  
*v1.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
Convert hex numbers to decimal and vice versa.

[jcd](jcd.md)  
*1.0 (September 16, 2025)*  
Enhanced directory navigation with substring matching and smart selection for Linux and macOS.

[Junction](junction.md)  
*v1.07 (July 4, 2016)*  
Create Win2K NTFS symbolic links.

[LDMDump](ldmdump.md)  
*v1.02 (November 1, 2006)*  
Dump the contents of the Logical Disk Manager's on-disk database, which
describes the partitioning of Windows 2000 Dynamic disks.

[ListDLLs](listdlls.md)  
*v3.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
List all the DLLs that are currently loaded, including where they are
loaded and their version numbers.

[LiveKd](livekd.md)  
*v5.62 (May 16, 2017)*  
Use Microsoft kernel debuggers to examine a live system.

[LoadOrder](loadorder.md)  
*v1.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
See the order in which devices are loaded on your WinNT/2K system.

[LogonSessions](logonsessions.md)  
*v1.41 (November 25, 2020)*  
List the active logon sessions on a system.

[MoveFile](pendmoves.md)  
*v1.02 (September 17, 2020)*  
Allows you to schedule move and delete commands for the next reboot.

[NotMyFault](notmyfault.md)  
*v4.21 (September 29, 2022)*  
Notmyfault is a tool that you can use to crash, hang, and cause kernel
memory leaks on your Windows system.

[NTFSInfo](ntfsinfo.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Use NTFSInfo to see detailed information about NTFS volumes, including
the size and location of the Master File Table (MFT) and MFT-zone, as
well as the sizes of the NTFS meta-data files.

[PendMoves](pendmoves.md)  
*v1.3 (September 17, 2020)*  
Enumerate the list of file rename and delete commands that will be
executed the next boot.

[PipeList](pipelist.md)  
*v1.02 (July 4, 2016)*  
Displays the named pipes on your system, including the number of maximum
instances and active instances for each pipe.

[PortMon](portmon.md)  
*v3.03 (January 12, 2012)*  
Monitor serial and parallel port activity with this advanced monitoring
tool. It knows about all standard serial and parallel IOCTLs and even
shows you a portion of the data being sent and received. Version 3.x has
powerful new UI enhancements and advanced filtering capabilities.

[ProcDump](procdump.md)  
*v11.0 (November 3, 2022)*  
This command-line utility is aimed at capturing process dumps of
otherwise difficult to isolate and reproduce CPU spikes. It also serves
as a general process dump creation utility and can also monitor and
generate process dumps when a process has a hung window or unhandled
exception.

[Process Explorer](process-explorer.md)  
*v17.06 (May 28, 2024)*  
Find out what files, registry keys and other objects processes have
open, which DLLs they have loaded, and more. This uniquely powerful
utility will even show you who owns each process.

[Process Monitor](procmon.md)  
*v4.01 (June 20, 2024)*  
Monitor file system, Registry, process, thread and DLL activity in
real-time.

[PsExec](psexec.md)  
*v2.43 (April 11, 2023)*  
Execute processes on remote systems.

[PsFile](psfile.md)  
*v1.04 (March 30, 2023)*  
See what files are opened remotely.

[PsGetSid](psgetsid.md)  
*v1.46 (March 30, 2023)*  
Displays the SID of a computer or a user.

[PsInfo](psinfo.md)  
*v1.79 (March 30, 2023)*  
Obtain information about a system.

[PsKill](pskill.md)  
*v1.17 (March 30, 2023)*  
Terminate local or remote processes.

[PsPing](psping.md)  
*v2.12 (March 30, 2023)*  
Measure network performance.

[PsList](pslist.md)  
*v1.41 (March 30, 2023)*  
Show information about processes and threads.

[PsLoggedOn](psloggedon.md)  
*v1.35 (June 29, 2016)*  
Show users logged on to a system.

[PsLogList](psloglist.md)  
*v2.82 (March 30, 2023)*  
Dump event log records.

[PsPasswd](pspasswd.md)  
*v1.25 (March 30, 2023)*  
Changes account passwords.

[PsService](psservice.md)  
*v2.26 (March 30, 2023)*  
View and control services.

[PsShutdown](psshutdown.md)  
*v2.6 (March 30, 2023)*  
Shuts down and optionally reboots a computer.

[PsSuspend](pssuspend.md)  
*v1.08 (March 30, 2023)*  
Suspend and resume processes.

[PsTools](pstools.md)  
*v2.51 (April 11, 2023)*  
The PsTools suite includes command-line utilities for listing the
processes running on local or remote computers, running processes
remotely, rebooting computers, dumping event logs, and more.

[RAMMap](rammap.md)  
*v1.61 (May 11, 2022)*  
An advanced physical memory usage analysis utility that presents usage
information in different ways on its several different tabs.

[RDCMan](rdcman.md)  
*v3.1 (May 5, 2025)*  
Manage multiple remote desktop connections.

[RegDelNull](regdelnull.md)  
*v1.11 (July 4, 2016)*  
Scan for and delete Registry keys that contain embedded null-characters
that are otherwise undeleteable by standard Registry-editing tools.

[Registry Usage (RU)](ru.md)  
*v1.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
View the registry space usage for the specified registry key.

[RegJump](regjump.md)  
*v1.11 (October 12, 2021)*  
Jump to the registry path you specify in Regedit.

[SDelete](sdelete.md)  
*v2.05 (September 29, 2023)*  
Securely overwrite your sensitive files and cleanse your free space of
previously deleted files using this DoD-compliant secure delete program.

[ShareEnum](shareenum.md)  
*v1.61 (October 12, 2021)*  
Scan file shares on your network and view their security settings to
close security holes.

[ShellRunas](shellrunas.md)  
*v1.02 (October 12, 2021)*  
Launch programs as a different user via a convenient shell context-menu
entry.

[Sigcheck](sigcheck.md)  
*v2.90 (July 19, 2022)*  
Dump file version information and verify that images on your system are
digitally signed.

[Streams](streams.md)  
*v1.6 (July 4, 2016)*  
Reveal NTFS alternate streams.

[Strings](strings.md)  
*v2.54 (June 22, 2021)*  
Search for ANSI and UNICODE strings in binary images.

[Sync](sync.md)  
*v2.2 (July 4, 2016)*  
Flush cached data to disk.

[Sysmon](sysmon.md)  
*v15.15 (July 23, 2024)*  
Monitors and reports key system activity via the Windows event log.

[TCPView](tcpview.md)  
*v4.19 (April 11, 2023)*  
Active socket viewer.

[VMMap](vmmap.md)  
*v3.4 (October 18, 2023)*  
VMMap is a process virtual and physical memory analysis utility.

[VolumeId](volumeid.md)  
*v2.1 (July 4, 2016)*  
Set Volume ID of FAT or NTFS drives.

[Whois](whois.md)  
*v1.20 (December 11, 2019)*  
See who owns an Internet address.

[WinObj](winobj.md)  
*v3.14 (January 27, 2022)*  
The ultimate Object Manager namespace viewer is here.

[ZoomIt](zoomit.md)  
*v9.01 (September 16, 2024)*  
Presentation utility for zooming and drawing on the screen.
