sysinternals/downloads/junction.md, before:

--- 
TOCTitle: Junction
title: Junction
description: Create Win2K NTFS symbolic links.
ms:assetid: '16f763c0-cb78-4d67-a865-63e79bef0c58'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb896768(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 09/17/2020
---

# Junction v1.07

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: July 4, 2016

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) [**Download Junction**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) **(504 KB)**

## Introduction

Windows 2000 and higher supports directory symbolic links, where a
directory serves as a symbolic link to another directory on the
computer. For example, if the directory D:\\SYMLINK specified
C:\\WINNT\\SYSTEM32 as its target, then an application accessing
D:\\SYMLINK\\DRIVERS would in reality be accessing
C:\\WINNT\\SYSTEM32\\DRIVERS. Directory symbolic links are known as NTFS
junctions in Windows. Unfortunately, Windows comes with no tools for
creating junctions—you have to purchase the Win2K Resource Kit, which
comes with the linkd program for creating junctions. I therefore decided
to write my own junction-creating tool: *Junction*. *Junction* not only
allows you to create NTFS junctions, it allows you to see if files or
directories are actually reparse points. Reparse points are the
mechanism on which NTFS junctions are based, and they are used by
Windows' Remote Storage Service (RSS), as well as volume mount points.

> [!NOTE]
> Windows does not support junctions to directories on remote shares.

## Using Junction

Use junction to list junctions:

**Usage: \[-s\]**

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
| **-s**  | Recurse subdirectories |

## Examples

To determine if a file is a junction, specify the file name:

**junction c:\\test**

To list junctions beneath a directory, include the –s switch:

**junction -s c:\\**

To create a junction c:\\Program-Files for "c:\\Program Files":

**C:\\&gt;md Program-Files**

**C:\\&gt;junction c:\\Program-Files "c:\\Program Files"**

To delete a junction, use the –d switch:

**junction -d c:\\Program-Files**

## Return codes
**0**  - on success  
**-1** - on failed creation of new junction  
**0**  - on failed deletion of junction  (e.g. if file not found)  
**0**  - on the check if a file is a junction fails (e.g. if file not found)  

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) [**Download Junction**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) **(504 KB)**

**Runs on:**

- Client: Windows Vista and higher
- Server: Windows Server 2008 and higher
- Nano Server: 2016 and higher

Commit message:

junction.md: The long-needed update
The was missing critical information needed to use this tool. (Perhaps it was accidentally damaged?) I updated the page to supply the missing info.

sysinternals/downloads/junction.md, after:

--- 
TOCTitle: Junction
title: Junction
description: Create Win2K NTFS symbolic links.
ms:assetid: '16f763c0-cb78-4d67-a865-63e79bef0c58'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/junction'
ms.date: 09/17/2020
---

# Junction v1.07

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: July 4, 2016

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) [**Download Junction**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) **(504 KB)**

## Introduction

Windows 2000 and higher supports directory symbolic links, where a
directory serves as a symbolic link to another directory on the
computer. For example, if the directory D:\\SYMLINK specified
C:\\WINNT\\SYSTEM32 as its target, then an application accessing
D:\\SYMLINK\\DRIVERS would in reality be accessing
C:\\WINNT\\SYSTEM32\\DRIVERS. Directory symbolic links are known as NTFS
junctions in Windows. Unfortunately, Windows comes with no tools for
creating junctions—you have to purchase the Win2K Resource Kit, which
comes with the linkd program for creating junctions. I therefore decided
to write my own junction-creating tool: *Junction*. *Junction* not only
allows you to create NTFS junctions, it allows you to see if files or
directories are actually reparse points. Reparse points are the
mechanism on which NTFS junctions are based, and they are used by
Windows' Remote Storage Service (RSS), as well as volume mount points.

> [!NOTE]
> Windows does not support junctions to directories on remote shares.

## Using Junction

### Syntax

- To obtain reparse point information: `junction.exe [-s] [-q] <file or directory>`
- To create a junction point: `junction.exe <junction directory> <junction target>`
- To delete a junction point: `junction.exe -d <junction directory>`

### Parameters

| Parameter              | Description                                                       |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<file or directory>`  | Path to the file or folder to query for reparse point information |
| `-s`                   | Recurse subdirectories                                            |
| `<junction directory>` | Name of the junction point to create or delete                    |
| `<junction target>`    | Full path to the target of the junction point to create           |
| `-d`                   | Delete the junction point                                         |


## Examples

To determine if a file is a junction, specify the file name:

```cmd
junction c:\test
```

To list junctions beneath a directory, include the –s switch:

```cmd
junction -s c:\
```

To create a junction c:\\Program-Files for "c:\\Program Files":

```cmd
md Program-Files
junction c:\Program-Files "c:\Program Files"
```

To delete a junction, use the –d switch:

```cmd
junction -d c:\Program-Files
```

## Return codes

**0**  - on success  
**-1** - on failed creation of new junction  
**0**  - on failed deletion of junction  (e.g. if file not found)  
**0**  - on the check if a file is a junction fails (e.g. if file not found)  

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) [**Download Junction**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Junction.zip) **(504 KB)**

**Runs on:**

- Client: Windows Vista and higher
- Server: Windows Server 2008 and higher
- Nano Server: 2016 and higher
