--- 
TOCTitle: NewSID
title: NewSID
description: Learn about the computer SID problem everybody has been talking about and get a free computer SID changer, NewSID.
ms:assetid: 'd1b65ba7-2339-4232-aafe-5871deff2e07'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb897418(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 11/01/2006
---

# NewSID v4.10


**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: November 1, 2006

**Note:** NewSID has been retired and is no longer available for
download. Please see Mark Russinovichâ€™s blog post: [NewSID Retirement
and the Machine SID Duplication
Myth](https://blogs.technet.com/markrussinovich/archive/2009/11/03/3291024.aspx)

## IMPORTANT

Regarding SIDs, Microsoft does not support images that are prepared
using NewSID, we only support images that are prepared using SysPrep.
Microsoft has not tested NewSID for all deployment cloning options.

For more information on Microsoft's official policy, please see the
following Knowledge Base article:

- [<strong>The Microsoft policy concerning disk duplication of Windows XP
  installations</strong>  
  ](https://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;314828)

## Introduction

Many organizations use disk image cloning to perform mass rollouts of
Windows. This technique involves copying the disks of a fully installed
and configured Windows computer onto the disk drives of other computers.
These other computers effectively appear to have been through the same
install process, and are immediately available for use.

While this method saves hours of work and hassle over other rollout
approaches, it has the major problem that every cloned system has an
identical Computer Security Identifier (SID). This fact compromises
security in Workgroup environments, and removable media security can
also be compromised in networks with multiple identical computer SIDs.

Demand from the Windows community has lead several companies to develop
programs that can change a computer's SID after a system has been
cloned. However, Symantec's SID Changer andSymantec's Ghost Walker are
only sold as part of each company's high-end product. Further, they both
run from a DOS command prompt (Altiris' changer is similar to
*NewSID*).  

*NewSID* is a program we developed that changes a computer's SID. It is
free and is a Win32 program, meaning that it can easily be run on
systems that have been previously cloned.

*Please read this entire article before you use this program.*

*Version Information:*

- Version 4.0 introduces support for Windows XP and .NET Server, a
    wizard-style interface, allows you to specify the SID that you want
    applied, Registry compaction and also the option to rename a
    computer (which results in a change of both NetBIOS and DNS names).
- Version 3.02 corrects a bug where NewSid would not correctly copy
    default values with invalid value types when renaming a key with an
    old SID to a new SID. NT actually makes use of such invalid values
    at certain times in the SAM. The symptom of this bug was error
    messages reporting access denied when account information was
    updated by an authorized user.
- Version 3.01 adds a work-around for an inaccessible Registry key
    that is created by Microsoft Transaction Server. Without the
    work-around *NewSID* would quit prematurely.
- Version 3.0 introduces a SID-sync feature that directs *NewSID* to
    obtain a SID to apply from another computer.
- Version 2.0 has an automated-mode option, and let's you change the
    computer name as well.
- Version 1.2 fixes a bug in that was introduced in 1.1 where some
    file system security descriptors were not updated.
- Version 1.1 corrects a relatively minor bug that affected only
    certain installations. It also has been updated to change SIDs
    associated with the permission settings of file and printer shares.  

## Cloning and Alternate Rollout Methods

One of the most popular ways of performing mass Windows rollouts
(typically hundreds of computers) in corporate environments is based on
the technique of disk cloning. A system administrator installs the base
operating system and add-on software used in the company on a template
computer. After configuring the machine for operation in the company
network, automated disk or system duplication tools (such as
[Symantec's](https://www.symantec.com/)*Ghost*,
[PowerQuest's](https://www.powerquest.com/)*Image Drive*, and
[Altiris'](https://www.altiris.com/)*RapiDeploy*) are used to copy the
template computer's drives onto tens or hundreds of computers. These
clones are then given final tweaks, such as the assignment of unique
names, and then used by company employees.

Another popular way of rolling out is by using the Microsoft *sysdiff*
utility (part of the Windows Resource Kit). This tool requires that the
system administrator perform a full install (usually a scripted
unattended installation) on each computer, and then *sysdiff* automates
the application of add-on software install images.

Because the installation is skipped, and because disk sector copying is
more efficient than file copying, a cloned-based rollout can save dozens
of hours over a comparable sysdiff install. In addition, the system
administrator does not have to learn how to use unattended install or
*sysdiff*, or create and debug install scripts. This alone saves hours
of work.  

## The SID Duplication Problem

The problem with cloning is that it is only supported by Microsoft in a
very limited sense. Microsoft has stated that cloning systems is only
supported if it is done before the GUI portion of Windows Setup has been
reached. When the install reaches this point the computer is assigned a
name and a unique computer SID. If a system is cloned after this step
the cloned machines will all have identical computer SIDs. Note that
just changing the computer name or adding the computer to a different
domain does not change the computer SID. Changing the name or domain
only changes the domain SID if the computer was previously associated
with a domain.

To understand the problem that cloning can cause, it is first necessary
to understand how individual local accounts on a computer are assigned
SIDs. The SIDs of local accounts consist of the computer's SID and an
appended RID (Relative Identifier). The RID starts at a fixed value, and
is increased by one for each account created. This means that the second
account on one computer, for example, will be given the same RID as the
second account on a clone. The result is that both accounts have the
same SID.

Duplicate SIDs aren't an issue in a Domain-based environment since
domain accounts have SID's based on the Domain SID. But, according to
Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q162001, "Do Not Disk Duplicate
Installed Versions of Windows NT", in a Workgroup environment security
is based on local account SIDs. Thus, if two computers have users with
the same SID, the Workgroup will not be able to distinguish between the
users. All resources, including files and Registry keys, that one user
has access to, the other will as well.

Another instance where duplicate SIDs can cause problems is where there
is removable media formatted with NTFS, and local account security
attributes are applied to files and directories. If such a media is
moved to a different computer that has the same SID, then local accounts
that otherwise would not be able to access the files might be able to if
their account IDs happened to match those in the security attributes.
This is not be possible if computers have different SIDs.

An article Mark has written, entitled "*NT Rollout Options,"* was
published in the June issue of *Windows NT Magazine*. It discusses the
duplicate SID issue in more detail, and presents Microsoft's official
stance on cloning. To see if you have a duplicate SID issue on your
network, use
[PsGetSid](psgetsid.md)
to display machine SIDs.  

## NewSID

*NewSID* is a program we developed to change a computer's SID. It first
generates a random SID for the computer, and proceeds to update
instances of the existing computer SID it finds in the Registry and in
file security descriptors, replacing occurrences with the new SID.
*NewSID* requires administrative privileges to run. It has two
functions: changing the SID, and changing the computer name.

To use *NewSID's* auto-run option, specify "/a" on the command line. You
can also direct it to automatically change the computer's name by
including the new name after the "/a" switch. For example:

**newsid /a \[newname\]**

Would have *NewSID* run without prompting, change the computer name to
"newname" and have it reboot the computer if everything goes okay.

**Note:** If the system on which you wish to run *NewSID* is running
IISAdmin you must stop the IISAdmin service before running *NewSID*. Use
this command to stop the IISAdmin service: net stop iisadmin /y

*NewSID*'s SID-synchronizing feature that allows you to specify that,
instead of randomly generating one, the new SID should be obtained from
a different computer. This functionality makes it possible to move a
Backup Domain Controller (BDC) to a new Domain, since a BDC's
relationship to a Domain is identified by it having the same computer
SID as the other Domain Controllers (DCs). Simply choose the
"Synchronize SID" button and enter the target computer's name. You must
have permissions to change the security settings of the target
computer's Registry keys, which typically means that you must be logged
in as a domain administrator to use this feature.

Note that when you run *NewSID* that the size of the Registry will grow,
so make sure that the maximum Registry size will accommodate growth. We
have found that this growth has no perceptible impact on system
performance. The reason the Registry grows is that it becomes fragmented
as temporary security settings are applied by *NewSID*. When the
settings are removed the Registry is not compacted.

**Important:** Note that while we have thoroughly tested *NewSID*, you
must use it at your own risk. As with any software that changes file and
Registry settings, it is highly recommended that you completely back-up
your computer before running *NewSID*.  

## Moving a BDC

Here are the steps you should follow when you want to move a BDC from
one domain to another:

1. Boot up the BDC you want to move and log in. Use *NewSID* to
    synchronize the SID of the BDC with the PDC of the domain to which
    you wish to move the BDC.
2. Reboot the system for which you changed the SID (the BDC). Since the
    domain the BDC is now associated with already has an active PDC, it
    will boot as a BDC in its new domain.
3. The BDC will show up as a workstation in Server Manager, so use the
    "Add to Domain" button to add the BDC to its new domain. Be sure to
    specify the BDC radio button when adding.  

## How it Works

*NewSID* starts by reading the existing computer SID. A computer's SID
is stored in the Registry's **SECURITY** hive under
**SECURITY\\SAM\\Domains\\Account**. This key has a value named F and a
value named V. The V value is a binary value that has the computer SID
embedded within it at the end of its data. *NewSID* ensures that this
SID is in a standard format (3 32-bit subauthorities preceded by three
32-bit authority fields).

Next, *NewSID* generates a new random SID for the computer. *NewSID*'s
generation takes great pains to create a truly random 96-bit value,
which replaces the 96-bits of the 3 subauthority values that make up a
computer SID.

Three phases to the computer SID replacement follow. In the first phase,
the **SECURITY** and **SAM** Registry hives are scanned for occurrences
of the old computer SID in key values, as well as the names of the keys.
When the SID is found in a value it is replaced with the new computer
SID, and when the SID is found in a name, the key and its subkeys are
copied to a new subkey that has the same name except with the new SID
replacing the old.

The final two phases involve updating security descriptors. Registry
keys and NTFS files have security associated with them. Security
descriptors consist of an entry that identifies which account owns the
resource, which group is the primary group owner, an optional list of
entries that specify actions permitted by users or groups (known as the
Discretionary Access Control List - DACL), and an optional list of
entries that specify which actions performed by certain users or groups
will generate entries in the system Event Log (System Access Control
List - SACL). A user or a group is identified in these security
descriptors with their SIDs, and as I stated earlier, local user
accounts (other than the built-in accounts such as Administrator, Guest,
and so on) have their SIDs made up of the computer SID plus a RID.

The first part of security descriptor updates occurs on all NTFS file
system files on the computer. Every security descriptor is scanned for
occurrences of the computer SID. When *NewSID* finds one, it replaces it
with the new computer SID.

The second part of security descriptor updates is performed on the
Registry. First, *NewSID* must make sure that it scans all hives, not
just those that are loaded. Every user account has a Registry hive that
is loaded as **HKEY\_CURRENT\_USER** when the user is logged in, but
remains on disk in the user's profile directory when they are not.
*NewSID* identifies the locations of all user hive locations by
enumerating the **HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\Software\\Microsoft\\Windows
NT\\CurrentVersion\\ProfileList** key, which points at the directories
in which they are stored. It then loads them into the Registry using
RegLoadKey under **HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE** and scans the entire Registry,
examining each security descriptor in search of the old computer SID.
Updates are performed the same as for files, and when its done *NewSID*
unloads the user hives it loaded. As a final step *NewSID* scans the
**HKEY\_USERS** key, which contains the hive of the currently logged-in
user as well as the .Default hive. This is necessary because a hive
can't be loaded twice, so the logged-in user hive won't be loaded into
**HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE** when *NewSID* is loading other user hives.

Finally, *NewSID* must update the **ProfileList** subkeys to refer to
the new account SIDs. This step is necessary to have Windows NT
correctly associate profiles with the user accounts after the account
SIDs are changed to reflect the new computer SID.

*NewSID* ensures that it can access and modify every file and Registry
key in the system by giving itself the following privileges: System,
Backup, Restore and Take Ownership.
