sysinternals/downloads/psping.md, before:

--- 
TOCTitle: PsPing
title: PsPing
description: Measure network performance.
ms:assetid: '80138356-ebe3-41cd-a14d-8aa7eae81c42'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/JJ729731(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 06/29/2016
---

# PsPing v2.1

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: June 29, 2016

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) [**Download PsTools**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) **(2.7 MB)**

## Introduction

PsPing implements Ping functionality, TCP ping, latency and bandwidth
measurement. Use the following command-line options to show the usage
for each test type:

## Installation

Copy *PsPing* onto your executable path. Typing "psping" displays its
usage syntax.  

## Using PsPing

*PsPing* implements Ping functionality, TCP ping, latency and bandwidth
measurement. Use the following command-line options to show the usage
for each test type:

**Usage:**

```cmd
psping -? [i|t|l|b\]
```

| Parameter | Description                |
|-----------|----------------------------|
|  **-? I** |  Usage for ICMP ping.      |
|  **-? T** |  Usage for TCP ping.       |
|  **-? L** |  Usage for latency test.   |
|  **-? B** |  Usage for bandwidth test. |

**ICMP ping usage:**  

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-i <interval>] [-l <requestsize>[k|m] [-q] [-t|-n <count>] [-w <count>] <destination>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Interval in seconds. Specify 0 for fast ping.|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of pings or append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'.|
|  **-q** |  Don't output during pings.|
|  **-t** |  Ping until stopped with Ctrl+C and type Ctrl+Break for statistics.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 1).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6. |

For high-speed ping tests use -q and -i 0.

**TCP ping usage:**  

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-i <interval>] [-l <requestsize>[k|m] [-q] [-t|-n <count>] [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Interval in seconds. Specify 0 for fast ping.|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of pings or append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'.|
|  **-q** |  Don't output during pings.|
|  **-t** |  Ping until stopped with Ctrl+C and type Ctrl+Break for statistics.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 1).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|


For high-speed ping tests use -q and -i 0.

**TCP and UDP latency usage:**

**server:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] <-s source:sourceport>
```

**client:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] [-u] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-r] <-l requestsize>[k|m]] <-n count> [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-f** |  Open source firewall port during the run.|
|  **-u** |  UDP (default is TCP).|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of sends/receives. Append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'|
|  **-r** |  Receive from the server instead of sending.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 5).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|
|  **-s** |  Server listening address and port.|

The server can serve both latency and bandwidth tests and remains active
until you terminate it with Control-C.

**TCP and UDP bandwidth usage:**

**server:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] <-s source:sourceport>
```

**client:**

```cmd
psping [-b] [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] [-u] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-r] <-l requestsize>[k|m]] <-n count> [-i <outstanding>] [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-f** |  Open source firewall port during the run.|
|  **-u** |  UDP (default is TCP).|
|  **-b** |  Bandwidth test.|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Number of outstanding I/Os (default is min of 16 and 2x CPU cores).|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of sends/receives. Append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'|
|  **-r** |  Receive from the server instead of sending.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup for the specified iterations (default is 2x CPU cores).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|
|  **-s** |  Server listening address and port.|

The server can serve both latency and bandwidth tests and remains active
until you terminate it with Control-C.

## Examples

This command executes an ICMP ping test for 10 iterations with 3 warmup
iterations:

```cmd
psping -n 10 -w 3 marklap
```

To execute a TCP connect test, specify the port number. The following
command executes connect attempts against the target as quickly as
possible, only printing a summary when finished with the 100 iterations
and 1 warmup iteration:

```cmd
psping -n 100 -i 0 -q marklap:80
```

To configure a server for latency and bandwidth tests, simply specify
the `-s` option and the source address and port the server will bind to:

```cmd
psping -s 192.168.2.2:5000
```

A buffer size is required to perform a TCP latency test. This example
measures the round trip latency of sending an 8KB packet to the target
server, printing a histogram with 100 buckets when completed:

```cmd
psping -l 8k -n 10000 -h 100 192.168.2.2:5000
```

This command tests bandwidth to a PsPing server listening at the target
IP address for 10 seconds and produces a histogram with 100 buckets.
Note that the test must run for at least one second after warmup for a
histogram to generate. Simply add `-u` to have PsPing perform a UDP
bandwidth test.

```cmd
psping -b -l 8k -n 10000 -h 100 192.168.2.2:5000
```

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) [**Download PsTools**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) **(2.7 MB)**

Commit message:

Add content for March 2023 second publish (#679)
Co-authored-by: John Stephens <johnstep@microsoft.com>

sysinternals/downloads/psping.md, after:

--- 
TOCTitle: PsPing
title: PsPing
description: Measure network performance.
ms:assetid: '80138356-ebe3-41cd-a14d-8aa7eae81c42'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/JJ729731(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 03/30/2023
---

# PsPing v2.12

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: March 30, 2023

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) [**Download PsTools**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) **(5 MB)**

## Introduction

PsPing implements Ping functionality, TCP ping, latency and bandwidth
measurement. Use the following command-line options to show the usage
for each test type:

## Installation

Copy *PsPing* onto your executable path. Typing "psping" displays its
usage syntax.  

## Using PsPing

*PsPing* implements Ping functionality, TCP ping, latency and bandwidth
measurement. Use the following command-line options to show the usage
for each test type:

**Usage:**

```cmd
psping -? [i|t|l|b\]
```

| Parameter | Description                |
|-----------|----------------------------|
|  **-? I** |  Usage for ICMP ping.      |
|  **-? T** |  Usage for TCP ping.       |
|  **-? L** |  Usage for latency test.   |
|  **-? B** |  Usage for bandwidth test. |

**ICMP ping usage:**  

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-i <interval>] [-l <requestsize>[k|m] [-q] [-t|-n <count>] [-w <count>] <destination>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Interval in seconds. Specify 0 for fast ping.|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of pings or append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'.|
|  **-q** |  Don't output during pings.|
|  **-t** |  Ping until stopped with Ctrl+C and type Ctrl+Break for statistics.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 1).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6. |

For high-speed ping tests use -q and -i 0.

**TCP ping usage:**  

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-i <interval>] [-l <requestsize>[k|m] [-q] [-t|-n <count>] [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Interval in seconds. Specify 0 for fast ping.|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of pings or append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'.|
|  **-q** |  Don't output during pings.|
|  **-t** |  Ping until stopped with Ctrl+C and type Ctrl+Break for statistics.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 1).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|


For high-speed ping tests use -q and -i 0.

**TCP and UDP latency usage:**

**server:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] <-s source:sourceport>
```

**client:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] [-u] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-r] <-l requestsize>[k|m]] <-n count> [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-f** |  Open source firewall port during the run.|
|  **-u** |  UDP (default is TCP).|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of sends/receives. Append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'|
|  **-r** |  Receive from the server instead of sending.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup with the specified number of iterations (default is 5).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|
|  **-s** |  Server listening address and port.|

The server can serve both latency and bandwidth tests and remains active
until you terminate it with Control-C.

**TCP and UDP bandwidth usage:**

**server:**

```cmd
psping [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] <-s source:sourceport>
```

**client:**

```cmd
psping [-b] [[-6]|[-4]] [-f] [-u] [-h [buckets | <val1>,<val2>,...]] [-r] <-l requestsize>[k|m]] <-n count> [-i <outstanding>] [-w <count>] <destination:destport>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-f** |  Open source firewall port during the run.|
|  **-u** |  UDP (default is TCP).|
|  **-b** |  Bandwidth test.|
|  **-h** |  Print histogram (default bucket count is 20).  |
|         |  If you specify a single argument, it's interpreted as a bucket count and the histogram will contain that number of buckets covering the entire time range of values. Specify a comma-separated list of times to create a custom histogram (e.g. "0.01,0.05,1,5,10").|
|  **-i** |  Number of outstanding I/Os (default is min of 16 and 2x CPU cores).|
|  **-l** |  Request size. Append 'k' for kilobytes and 'm' for megabytes.|
|  **-n** |  Number of sends/receives. Append 's' to specify seconds e.g. '10s'|
|  **-r** |  Receive from the server instead of sending.|
|  **-w** |  Warmup for the specified iterations (default is 2x CPU cores).|
|  **-4** |  Force using IPv4.|
|  **-6** |  Force using IPv6.|
|  **-s** |  Server listening address and port.|

The server can serve both latency and bandwidth tests and remains active
until you terminate it with Control-C.

## Examples

This command executes an ICMP ping test for 10 iterations with 3 warmup
iterations:

```cmd
psping -n 10 -w 3 marklap
```

To execute a TCP connect test, specify the port number. The following
command executes connect attempts against the target as quickly as
possible, only printing a summary when finished with the 100 iterations
and 1 warmup iteration:

```cmd
psping -n 100 -i 0 -q marklap:80
```

To configure a server for latency and bandwidth tests, simply specify
the `-s` option and the source address and port the server will bind to:

```cmd
psping -s 192.168.2.2:5000
```

A buffer size is required to perform a TCP latency test. This example
measures the round trip latency of sending an 8KB packet to the target
server, printing a histogram with 100 buckets when completed:

```cmd
psping -l 8k -n 10000 -h 100 192.168.2.2:5000
```

This command tests bandwidth to a PsPing server listening at the target
IP address for 10 seconds and produces a histogram with 100 buckets.
Note that the test must run for at least one second after warmup for a
histogram to generate. Simply add `-u` to have PsPing perform a UDP
bandwidth test.

```cmd
psping -b -l 8k -n 10000 -h 100 192.168.2.2:5000
```

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) [**Download PsTools**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/PSTools.zip) **(5 MB)**

**PsTools**  

*PsPing* is part of a growing kit of Sysinternals command-line tools
that aid in the administration of local and remote systems named
*PsTools*.

**Runs on:**

- Client: Windows 8.1 and higher.
- Server: Windows Server 2012 and higher.
