sysinternals/downloads/sdelete.md, before:

--- 
TOCTitle: SDelete
title: SDelete
description: Securely overwrite your sensitive files and cleanse your free space of previously deleted files using this DoD-compliant secure delete program.
ms:assetid: '5cc3991b-5a50-4784-a795-185e4ac84603'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb897443(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 11/25/2020
---

# SDelete v2.04

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: November 25, 2020

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) [**Download SDelete**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) **(518 KB)**

## Introduction

One feature of Windows NT/2000's (Win2K) C2-compliance is that it
implements object reuse protection. This means that when an application
allocates file space or virtual memory it is unable to view data that
was previously stored in the resources Windows NT/2K allocates for it.
Windows NT zero-fills memory and zeroes the sectors on disk where a file
is placed before it presents either type of resource to an application.
However, object reuse does not dictate that the space that a file
occupies before it is deleted be zeroed. This is because Windows NT/2K
is designed with the assumption that the operating system controls
access to system resources. However, when the operating system is not
active it is possible to use raw disk editors and recovery tools to view
and recover data that the operating system has deallocated. Even when
you encrypt files with Win2K's Encrypting File System (EFS), a file's
original unencrypted file data is left on the disk after a new encrypted
version of the file is created.

The only way to ensure that deleted files, as well as files that you
encrypt with EFS, are safe from recovery is to use a secure delete
application. Secure delete applications overwrite a deleted file's
on-disk data using techniques that are shown to make disk data
unrecoverable, even using recovery technology that can read patterns in
magnetic media that reveal weakly deleted files. *SDelete* (Secure
Delete) is such an application. You can use *SDelete* both to securely
delete existing files, as well as to securely erase any file data that
exists in the unallocated portions of a disk (including files that you
have already deleted or encrypted). *SDelete* implements the Department
of Defense clearing and sanitizing standard DOD 5220.22-M, to give you
confidence that once deleted with *SDelete*, your file data is gone
forever. Note that *SDelete* securely deletes file data, but not file
names located in free disk space.

## Using SDelete

*SDelete* is a command line utility that takes a number of options. In
any given use, it allows you to delete one or more files and/or
directories, or to cleanse the free space on a logical disk. *SDelete*
accepts wild card characters as part of the directory or file specifier.

**Usage:**

**sdelete \[-p passes\] \[-r\] \[-s\] \[-q\] &lt;file or directory&gt; \[...\]**

**sdelete \[-p passes\] \[-z|-c \[percent free\]\] &lt;drive letter \[...\]&gt;**

**sdelete \[-p passes\] \[-z|-c\] &lt;physical disk number&gt;**

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-c**        |  Clean free space. Specify an option amount of space to leave free for use by a running system.|
|  **-p**        |  Specifies number of overwrite passes (default is 1).|
|  **-r**        |  Remove Read-Only attribute.|
|  **-s**        |  Recurse subdirectories.|
|  **-z**        |  Zero free space (good for virtual disk optimization).|
|  **-nobanner** |  Do not display the startup banner and copyright message.|

## How SDelete Works

Securely deleting a file that has no special attributes is relatively
straight-forward: the secure delete program simply overwrites the file
with the secure delete pattern. What is more tricky is securely deleting
Windows NT/2K compressed, encrypted and sparse files, and securely
cleansing disk free spaces.

Compressed, encrypted and sparse are managed by NTFS in 16-cluster
blocks. If a program writes to an existing portion of such a file NTFS
allocates new space on the disk to store the new data and after the new
data has been written, deallocates the clusters previously occupied by
the file. NTFS takes this conservative approach for reasons related to
data integrity, and in the case of compressed and sparse files, in case
a new allocation is larger than what exists (the new compressed data is
bigger than the old compressed data). Thus, overwriting such a file will
not succeed in deleting the file's contents from the disk.

To handle these types of files *SDelete* relies on the defragmentation
API. Using the defragmentation API, *SDelete* can determine precisely
which clusters on a disk are occupied by data belonging to compressed,
sparse and encrypted files. Once *SDelete* knows which clusters contain
the file's data, it can open the disk for raw access and overwrite those
clusters.

Cleaning free space presents another challenge. Since FAT and NTFS
provide no means for an application to directly address free space,
*SDelete* has one of two options. The first is that it can, like it does
for compressed, sparse and encrypted files, open the disk for raw access
and overwrite the free space. This approach suffers from a big problem:
even if *SDelete* were coded to be fully capable of calculating the free
space portions of NTFS and FAT drives (something that's not trivial), it
would run the risk of collision with active file operations taking place
on the system. For example, say *SDelete* determines that a cluster is
free, and just at that moment the file system driver (FAT, NTFS) decides
to allocate the cluster for a file that another application is
modifying. The file system driver writes the new data to the cluster,
and then *SDelete* comes along and overwrites the freshly written data:
the file's new data is gone. The problem is even worse if the cluster is
allocated for file system metadata since *SDelete* will corrupt the file
system's on-disk structures.

The second approach, and the one *SDelete* takes, is to indirectly
overwrite free space. First, *SDelete* allocates the largest file it
can. *SDelete* does this using non-cached file I/O so that the contents
of the NT file system cache will not be thrown out and replaced with
useless data associated with *SDelete*'s space-hogging file. Because
non-cached file I/O must be sector (512-byte) aligned, there might be
some leftover space that isn't allocated for the *SDelete* file even
when *SDelete* cannot further grow the file. To grab any remaining space
*SDelete* next allocates the largest cached file it can. For both of
these files *SDelete* performs a secure overwrite, ensuring that all the
disk space that was previously free becomes securely cleansed.

On NTFS drives *SDelete*'s job isn't necessarily through after it
allocates and overwrites the two files. *SDelete* must also fill any
existing free portions of the NTFS MFT (Master File Table) with files
that fit within an MFT record. An MFT record is typically 1KB in size,
and every file or directory on a disk requires at least one MFT record.
Small files are stored entirely within their MFT record, while files
that don't fit within a record are allocated clusters outside the MFT.
All *SDelete* has to do to take care of the free MFT space is allocate
the largest file it can - when the file occupies all the available space
in an MFT Record NTFS will prevent the file from getting larger, since
there are no free clusters left on the disk (they are being held by the
two files *SDelete* previously allocated). *SDelete* then repeats the
process. When *SDelete* can no longer even create a new file, it knows
that all the previously free records in the MFT have been completely
filled with securely overwritten files.

To overwrite file names of a file that you delete, *SDelete* renames the
file 26 times, each time replacing each character of the file's name
with a successive alphabetic character. For instance, the first rename
of "foo.txt" would be to "AAA.AAA".

The reason that *SDelete* does not securely delete file names when
cleaning disk free space is that deleting them would require direct
manipulation of directory structures. Directory structures can have free
space containing deleted file names, but the free directory space is not
available for allocation to other files. Hence, *SDelete* has no way of
allocating this free space so that it can securely overwrite it.

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) [**Download SDelete**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) **(518 KB)**

**Runs on:**

- Client: Windows Vista and higher
- Server: Windows Server 2008 and higher
- Nano Server: 2016 and higher

Commit message:

Add content for September 2023 publish (#731)
* Clarify sdel syntax
* Update min supported Windows client

sysinternals/downloads/sdelete.md, after:

--- 
TOCTitle: SDelete
title: SDelete
description: Securely overwrite your sensitive files and cleanse your free space of previously deleted files using this DoD-compliant secure delete program.
ms:assetid: '5cc3991b-5a50-4784-a795-185e4ac84603'
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/Bb897443(v=MSDN.10)'
ms.date: 11/25/2020
---

# SDelete v2.05

**By Mark Russinovich**

Published: September 29, 2023

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) [**Download SDelete**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) **(304 KB)**

## Introduction

One feature of Windows NT/2000's (Win2K) C2-compliance is that it
implements object reuse protection. This means that when an application
allocates file space or virtual memory it is unable to view data that
was previously stored in the resources Windows NT/2K allocates for it.
Windows NT zero-fills memory and zeroes the sectors on disk where a file
is placed before it presents either type of resource to an application.
However, object reuse does not dictate that the space that a file
occupies before it is deleted be zeroed. This is because Windows NT/2K
is designed with the assumption that the operating system controls
access to system resources. However, when the operating system is not
active it is possible to use raw disk editors and recovery tools to view
and recover data that the operating system has deallocated. Even when
you encrypt files with Win2K's Encrypting File System (EFS), a file's
original unencrypted file data is left on the disk after a new encrypted
version of the file is created.

The only way to ensure that deleted files, as well as files that you
encrypt with EFS, are safe from recovery is to use a secure delete
application. Secure delete applications overwrite a deleted file's
on-disk data using techniques that are shown to make disk data
unrecoverable, even using recovery technology that can read patterns in
magnetic media that reveal weakly deleted files. *SDelete* (Secure
Delete) is such an application. You can use *SDelete* both to securely
delete existing files, as well as to securely erase any file data that
exists in the unallocated portions of a disk (including files that you
have already deleted or encrypted). *SDelete* implements the Department
of Defense clearing and sanitizing standard DOD 5220.22-M, to give you
confidence that once deleted with *SDelete*, your file data is gone
forever. Note that *SDelete* securely deletes file data, but not file
names located in free disk space.

## Using SDelete

*SDelete* is a command line utility that takes a number of options. In
any given use, it allows you to delete one or more files and/or
directories, or to cleanse the free space on a logical disk. *SDelete*
accepts wild card characters as part of the directory or file specifier.

**Usage:**

```cmd
sdelete [-p passes] [-r] [-s] [-q] [-f] <file or directory [...]>
sdelete [-p passes] [-q] [-z|-c] <drive letter [...]>
sdelete [-p passes] [-q] [-z|-c] <physical disk number [...]>
```

|Parameter  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|  **-c**        |  Clean free space. |
|  **-f**        |  Force arguments containing only letters to be treated as a file/directory rather than a disk.<br />Not required if the argument contains other characters (path separators or file extensions for example). |
|  **-p**        |  Specifies number of overwrite passes (default is 1).|
|  **-q**        |  Quiet mode. |
|  **-r**        |  Remove Read-Only attribute. |
|  **-s**        |  Recurse subdirectories. |
|  **-z**        |  Zero free space (good for virtual disk optimization). |
|  **-nobanner** |  Do not display the startup banner and copyright message. |

* Disks must not have any volumes in order to be cleaned.
* For drive letters, include `:`, for example `D:`.

## How SDelete Works

Securely deleting a file that has no special attributes is relatively
straight-forward: the secure delete program simply overwrites the file
with the secure delete pattern. What is more tricky is securely deleting
Windows NT/2K compressed, encrypted and sparse files, and securely
cleansing disk free spaces.

Compressed, encrypted and sparse are managed by NTFS in 16-cluster
blocks. If a program writes to an existing portion of such a file NTFS
allocates new space on the disk to store the new data and after the new
data has been written, deallocates the clusters previously occupied by
the file. NTFS takes this conservative approach for reasons related to
data integrity, and in the case of compressed and sparse files, in case
a new allocation is larger than what exists (the new compressed data is
bigger than the old compressed data). Thus, overwriting such a file will
not succeed in deleting the file's contents from the disk.

To handle these types of files *SDelete* relies on the defragmentation
API. Using the defragmentation API, *SDelete* can determine precisely
which clusters on a disk are occupied by data belonging to compressed,
sparse and encrypted files. Once *SDelete* knows which clusters contain
the file's data, it can open the disk for raw access and overwrite those
clusters.

Cleaning free space presents another challenge. Since FAT and NTFS
provide no means for an application to directly address free space,
*SDelete* has one of two options. The first is that it can, like it does
for compressed, sparse and encrypted files, open the disk for raw access
and overwrite the free space. This approach suffers from a big problem:
even if *SDelete* were coded to be fully capable of calculating the free
space portions of NTFS and FAT drives (something that's not trivial), it
would run the risk of collision with active file operations taking place
on the system. For example, say *SDelete* determines that a cluster is
free, and just at that moment the file system driver (FAT, NTFS) decides
to allocate the cluster for a file that another application is
modifying. The file system driver writes the new data to the cluster,
and then *SDelete* comes along and overwrites the freshly written data:
the file's new data is gone. The problem is even worse if the cluster is
allocated for file system metadata since *SDelete* will corrupt the file
system's on-disk structures.

The second approach, and the one *SDelete* takes, is to indirectly
overwrite free space. First, *SDelete* allocates the largest file it
can. *SDelete* does this using non-cached file I/O so that the contents
of the NT file system cache will not be thrown out and replaced with
useless data associated with *SDelete*'s space-hogging file. Because
non-cached file I/O must be sector (512-byte) aligned, there might be
some leftover space that isn't allocated for the *SDelete* file even
when *SDelete* cannot further grow the file. To grab any remaining space
*SDelete* next allocates the largest cached file it can. For both of
these files *SDelete* performs a secure overwrite, ensuring that all the
disk space that was previously free becomes securely cleansed.

On NTFS drives *SDelete*'s job isn't necessarily through after it
allocates and overwrites the two files. *SDelete* must also fill any
existing free portions of the NTFS MFT (Master File Table) with files
that fit within an MFT record. An MFT record is typically 1KB in size,
and every file or directory on a disk requires at least one MFT record.
Small files are stored entirely within their MFT record, while files
that don't fit within a record are allocated clusters outside the MFT.
All *SDelete* has to do to take care of the free MFT space is allocate
the largest file it can - when the file occupies all the available space
in an MFT Record NTFS will prevent the file from getting larger, since
there are no free clusters left on the disk (they are being held by the
two files *SDelete* previously allocated). *SDelete* then repeats the
process. When *SDelete* can no longer even create a new file, it knows
that all the previously free records in the MFT have been completely
filled with securely overwritten files.

To overwrite file names of a file that you delete, *SDelete* renames the
file 26 times, each time replacing each character of the file's name
with a successive alphabetic character. For instance, the first rename
of "foo.txt" would be to "AAA.AAA".

The reason that *SDelete* does not securely delete file names when
cleaning disk free space is that deleting them would require direct
manipulation of directory structures. Directory structures can have free
space containing deleted file names, but the free directory space is not
available for allocation to other files. Hence, *SDelete* has no way of
allocating this free space so that it can securely overwrite it.

[![Download](media/shared/Download_sm.png)](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) [**Download SDelete**](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/SDelete.zip) **(304 KB)**

**Runs on:**

- Client: Windows 10 and higher.
- Server: Windows Server 2012 and higher.
- Nano Server: 2016 and higher.
